
================================================================================
TICKER: ADSK | DATE: 2025-01-23
================================================================================
Autodesk (ADSK +0.98%)Q4 2025 Earnings CallFeb 27, 2025, 5:00 p.m. ET
Thank you for standing by, and welcome to Autodesk fourth quarter and full year fiscal 2025 earnings conference call. [Operator instructions] I would now like to hand the call over to Simon Mays-Smith, vice president, investor relations. Please go ahead.
Simon Mays-Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Thanks, operator, and good afternoon. Thank you for joining our conference call to discuss Autodesk's fiscal '25 fourth quarter and full year results. Andrew Anagnost, our CEO; and Janesh Moorjani, our CFO, are on the line with me. During this call, we will make forward-looking statements, including outlook and related assumptions, and on product, go-to-market and strategies.
Actual events or results could differ materially. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent Form 10-Q and the Form 8-K filed with today's press release for important risks and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements made during the call are being made as of today. If this call is replayed or reviewed after today, the information presented during the call may not contain current or accurate information.
Autodesk disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. We will quote several numerical growth changes during this call as we discuss our financial performance. Unless otherwise noted, each such reference represents a year-on-year comparison. All non-GAAP numbers referenced in today's call are reconciled in our press release or Excel financials and other supplemental materials available on our investor relations website.
And now, I will turn the call over to Andrew. 
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Thank you, Simon, and welcome, everyone, to the call. Autodesk delivered strong fourth quarter and full year results. Billings and revenue topped the higher end of our expected range despite new foreign exchange headwinds, while margins and free cash flow exceeded our expectations. You will all have seen our restructuring announcement this afternoon, which has two parts.
First, we have initiated the optimization phase of our sales and marketing plan. And second, we are reallocating internal resources to accelerate our strategic priorities and strengthen our resilience. Let me talk about them in turn. Our go-to-market, GTM model, has evolved significantly and purposely from the transition to subscription and multiyear contracts billed annually through self-service enablement, the adoption of direct billing and more.
We are now beginning the optimization phase, which positions Autodesk to better meet the evolving needs of its customers and channel partners. This comes from faster and less complex processes and more digital self-service and automation that enable tighter channel partnerships and less duplication of effort. Autodesk will continue to evolve its GTM to increase customer satisfaction and Autodesk productivity. Our current focus is on marketing, customer success and operations with an emphasis on consolidating teams into centers of excellence and investing in systems and processes that increase sales and marketing, S&M, efficiency at scale.
Our future focus will be on tighter channel partner integration which will drive sales productivity and a greater emphasis on value creation for customers and the broad deployment of self-service capabilities to further increase sales and marketing efficiency. Due to this ongoing optimization, we expect operating profit dollars and pre-new transaction model non-GAAP margin improvement in both fiscal '25 and fiscal '27. And once the optimization phase is complete, we expect to deliver GAAP margins among the best in the industry. Turning to where we are, reallocating internal resources to focus on the long term.
Autodesk is focused on the convergence of design and make in the cloud, enabled by platform, industry cloud and AI. Our investments in cloud, platform and AI are ahead of our peers and will drive growth by providing our customers with increasingly valuable and connected solutions and supporting a much broader customer and developer ecosystem. To maintain and extend this leadership, we're shifting resources across the company to accelerate investments in these high-potential strategic priorities. We are also building the capabilities we will need to enable future optimization and ensuring that we distribute critical expertise globally to remain competitive, resilient and flexible.
As I said last quarter, we are generating strong and sustained momentum in absolute terms and relative to peers. There are three main reasons: Attractive long-term secular growth markets, a focused strategy delivering ever-more valuable and connected solutions to our customers and a resilient business. Disciplined execution is driving greater operational velocity and efficiency. We are deploying capital to grow the business, further reduce our share count and enhance value creation over time.
We believe these factors will deliver sustainable shareholder value over many years. Janesh is with me here at our annual sales conference today. We're excited to have him at Autodesk and he's already making an impact. I'd like to welcome him and turn the call over to him so he can take you through our results and guidance for the year ahead.
I'll then come back to provide an update on our strategic growth initiatives.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Andrew. I'm delighted to be here with all of you. Before I get into our results, I'll touch on two areas of potential that I saw that attracted me to Autodesk. First, we are well-positioned to deliver growth at scale as we drive the convergence of design and make in the cloud, enabled by platform, industry cloud and AI.
And second, we have significant potential to drive expanded profitability as we further optimize the level and effectiveness of investments in the business. Having spent the last few months gaining a deeper understanding of the business, I am confident in our ability to do both. Let's turn to the results. The fourth quarter and full year fiscal '25 results were strong.
Overall, the broader economic environment and the underlying momentum of the business in the fourth quarter were consistent with the last few quarters with continuing strong renewal rates and headwinds to new business growth. Total revenue in the fourth quarter grew 12% as reported and in constant currency. We generated broad-based growth across products and regions. By product in constant currency, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT revenue grew 9%.
AECO revenue grew 15%, manufacturing revenue grew 10% and in the low teens, excluding upfront revenue, and M&E revenue grew 10%. Our make products continue to enhance growth, driven by ongoing strength in construction and fusion. By region in constant currency, revenue grew 11% in the Americas, 13% in EMEA and 11% in APAC. The contribution from the new transaction model to revenue was $46 million in the fourth quarter and $71 million for the year.
Direct revenue increased 35% in constant currency and represented 47% of total revenue, up 8 percentage points from last year, benefiting from strong growth in the Autodesk Store and also, from the tailwind to revenue from the new transaction model. Billings increased 24% in the quarter at constant currency, reflecting the shift to annual billings for most multiyear contracts and the transition to the new transaction model. The contribution from the new transaction model to billings was $155 million in the fourth quarter and $262 million for the full year. RPO of $6.9 billion and current RPO of $4.5 billion grew 14% and 12%, respectively.
As expected, current RPO growth was affected by tailwinds from the new transaction model and headwinds from the declining contribution of billed and unbilled deferred revenue from larger multiyear and EBA cohorts ahead of renewal in fiscal '26. Turning to margins. Fourth quarter GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins were 22% and 37%, respectively, reflecting year-over-year increases of 90 and 160 basis points. We were pleased that we exceeded our non-GAAP margin expectations demonstrating strong fiscal discipline.
For fiscal '25, GAAP and non-GAAP margins increased approximately 220 and 140 basis points year over year, respectively, excluding the impact of the new transaction model and currency movements. Free cash flow for fiscal '25 was $1.57 billion, which was ahead of the high end of our guidance. In the fourth quarter, we purchased approximately 1.4 million shares for $414 million at an average price of approximately $299 per share. For the full year, we purchased approximately 3.1 million shares for $858 million at an average price of approximately $279 per share.
Turning to guidance. To give you a clearer view on the underlying dynamics of the business, I will speak to the numbers excluding the impact of the new transaction model and in constant currency. You'll also see in today's earnings deck that we split out the impact of the new transaction model and currency movements for our fiscal '26 guidance. For a further review of how the new transaction model works, please see the opening commentary and earnings deck from our Q2 fiscal '25 earnings call.
Let me start by framing how we are thinking about fiscal '26. Our starting position is strong. We hold leadership positions in many of our markets and have a loyal customer base with a high degree of recurring revenue. We are leading in cloud platform and AI as we help our customers realize the benefits of converged workflows and data in the cloud.
In building our guidance, we have not seen fundamental changes in the broader geopolitical and macroeconomic environment or in the momentum of our markets. Our business model is resilient, and we are seeing strong momentum in our growth businesses like construction and fusion. Our focus through fiscal '26 will be on driving growth from new and existing customers, while maintaining strong renewal rates. Our approach to building the guidance for fiscal '26 was similar to that of fiscal '25.
Our guidance is based on the range of possible outcomes and a bottom-up sales forecast, which is grounded in the momentum of the business. Given our restructuring plans and CRO transition, we believe some disruption is possible. While we have mitigation plans and actions in place for these changes, we believe it is prudent to consider these in our outlook, and our guidance reflects this. This frames how we are thinking about fiscal '26.
There are more financial details in our earnings press release and earnings deck, but let me give you some color. We expect constant currency billings growth of 17% to 19%, excluding the impact of the new transaction model. Billings growth remains elevated this year due to our transition to annual billing for most multiyear contracts. We expect constant currency revenue growth of between 8% and 9%, excluding the impact of the new transaction model.
This range reflects the assumptions that I mentioned earlier. We expect GAAP operating margin to be in the range of 21% to 22%. Excluding the impact of the new transaction model and currency movements, we expect non-GAAP operating margin to be in the range of 39% to 40%, which is at the higher end of the guidance range we gave three years ago. We expect to generate between $2.075 billion and $2.175 billion of free cash flow in fiscal '26.
This is after absorbing approximately $110 million to $120 million of cash outflows related to the actions we announced earlier today and includes an anticipated discrete cash benefit of $130 million to $150 million from the utilization of U.S. deferred tax assets. We've provided more information on this in the slide deck. We expect the buyback between approximately $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion of shares in fiscal '26, which is a 30% to 40% increase compared to fiscal '25 and the timing of which will depend on market conditions and other factors like debt refinancing.
The slide deck on our website has more details on modeling assumptions for the first quarter and full year fiscal '26. Finally, I'll share how we are currently thinking about our longer-term future. Since joining Autodesk last December, my conviction in our market opportunity, our ability to meaningfully expand our operating margins and our capacity to deliver sustainable shareholder value over many years has been reaffirmed. That said, our underlying growth has been hovering around the bottom end of the 10% to 15% revenue growth framework we previously provided as you've seen over the past couple of years and in our fiscal '26 guidance.
While we believe our resilient base, the successful execution of our product strategy and the benefits of the new transaction model will catalyze sustainable growth in the future, our 10% to 15% growth framework is no longer appropriate given the consistent momentum of the business to date. On the other hand, it's clear to me that margins can be higher. We've announced today the first phase of our go-to-market optimization, which is primarily in marketing, customer success and operations and reflects the continued execution of our overall go-to-market evolution of the past few years. We are focused on executing this plan while minimizing potential disruption.
Through this phase, we intend to deliver underlying operating margin expansion in fiscal '26 as reflected in our guidance, while also building capabilities we need for future optimization beyond fiscal '26. These capabilities include tighter channel partnerships with less duplication of effort and more digital self-service and automation, which increases customer satisfaction and workforce productivity. Once our overall go-to-market optimization is complete, we expect Autodesk will be able to better service customers and deliver GAAP margins among the best in the industry. We will share more on our path to further margin expansion at an investor day in the third quarter of this year.
It's been invigorating getting to work, finalizing our fiscal '26 plans and preparing for execution, I can already see there's tremendous potential ahead. I look forward to meeting our investors and analysts over the coming weeks. Andrew, back to you.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Thank you, Janesh. Autodesk is focused on the convergence of design and make in the cloud enabled by platform, industry cloud and AI. Autodesk is at the forefront of convergence because we've been evolving and investing in the business models, products and platforms, and go-to-market that capitalize on it. With convergence, simulation done in the conceptual design phase can significantly reduce rework and cost during construction.
With convergence, the components of a building can be manufactured offsite and assembled on-site at lower cost and higher safety. With convergence, universal AI models can make better and more valuable inferences that power a better world designed for all. Let me give you a few examples from the quarter. Mott MacDonald, a global engineering, development and management consultancy, known for its work on major projects such as Heathrow Airport Terminal 5 and the Bay Area Rapid Transit, BART, Silicon Valley Phase 2 extension, renewed its sixth EBA in the quarter.
This renewal expands our long-standing partnership to drive better outcomes through digital delivery. In addition to expanding usage of Revit, Civil 3D, Autodesk Build and Autodesk Water, Mott MacDonald plans to leverage additional capabilities to increase project productivity and workflows for optimized design. Power Design, the #28 ENR 600 specialty contractor selected Autodesk Build as an essential link in their construction technology. This strategic choice enhances coordination between design and construction, ensuring seamless collaboration across teams and systems.
By unifying project data from concept to completion, Autodesk helps Power Design protect design integrity, optimize workflows and drive efficiency at scale. Cleveland Construction, a national commercial GC, is replacing a competitive solution with Autodesk Construction Cloud to support the next phase of its growth and leveraging our end-to-end solution from preconstruction to cost management and payments with GCPay. I talked earlier about flow-through integration with our channel partners and this deal demonstrates that potential. Using its proprietary technology for migrating project data from displaced solutions, an Autodesk's platinum partner produced a comprehensive implementation plan that gave Cleveland Construction, the confidence to make this transition.
These stories have a common theme. Converging people, processes and data across the project life cycle to increase efficiency and sustainability while decreasing risk. Our comprehensive end-to-end industry cloud and platform drive convergence and extend our footprint further into larger growth segments like infrastructure and construction. As a sign of our progress, construction revenue growth accelerated in the fourth quarter, and we added almost 400 net new logos.
Moving on to manufacturing. We made excellent progress on our strategic initiatives. Customers continue to invest in their digital transformations and consolidate on our design and make platform to drive growth and increase resilience. For example, a global leader in toys is expanding its usage of Autodesk to all three of our industry clouds, fusion, forma, and flow, to meet its profitability goals in manufacturing while launching new revenue models into digital entertainment.
Autodesk's unique industry expertise across AECO, manufacturing and media bridges data across physical and digital product development and between design and make. Buhler, a family owned Swiss multinational plant equipment manufacturer, renewed and expanded its EBA in the quarter. Autodesk will be one of Buhler's key strategic partners in the development and execution of their digital strategy as it moves to optimize for outcomes by connecting data and workflows from product and plant design to project delivery, including installation. MSC Industrial Supply, one of the largest industrial distributors in North America with the leading position across metalworking product categories, will begin leveraging Autodesk fusion's connected supply chain capabilities and unique all-in-one cloud CAD, CAM, CAE and PCB platform to enhance its industry-leading application optimization, AP OP program.
Through this strategic relationship, MSC's team of metalworking specialists will be able to optimize toolpaths and validating cutting parameters more efficiently through enhanced virtual testing capabilities that further strengthen their best-in-class tooling recommendations for manufacturing customers. By combining MSC's suite of solutions and services with Autodesk fusion's advanced capabilities, this partnership creates an unmatched value proposition for manufacturers in North America, resulting in approximately $500 million in savings for MSC's customers in fiscal year 2024. Converged data opens new opportunities for Autodesk, in this case with the sales team. As customers seek to drive efficient innovation, fusion extension attach rates are increasing and driving average sales prices up, and we're delivering meaningful productivity gains to customers where we deploy AI.
For example, our recently launched AutoConstrain tool in fusion, which leverages AI to simplify the process of defining sketch geometry, has a roughly 50% acceptance rate on suggested geometry, saving significant time for higher-value work. In education, universities continue to modernize their courses and curriculum to attract and prepare future engineers. For example, in Q4, Autodesk signed a memorandum of understanding with the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay to integrate our industry-leading solutions into IIT Bombay's innovative education and research programs to equip the next generation of engineers and designers with industry-ready skills. And lastly, we continue to work with our customers to ensure that they are using the latest and most secure versions of our software.
For example, while working with an administrator of European railway infrastructure in the process of adopting BIM to optimize its infrastructure development and sustainability processes, we identified gaps in compliance. Working together, we address compliance while supporting their digital transformation. Attractive long-term secular growth markets, a focused strategy of delivering ever-more valuable and connected solutions to our customers and a resilient business are generating strong and sustained momentum in absolute terms and relative to peers. Disciplined execution is driving greater operational velocity and efficiency.
We are deploying capital to grow the business, further reduce our share count and enhance value creation over time. In combination, we believe these factors will deliver sustainable shareholder value over many years. Throughout Autodesk's history, we have taken decisive actions to drive our business forward, even when they are difficult. This commitment has been paramount to our success over the last 40 years and remains true today.
To our team members who departed as a result of our restructuring, I extend my sincere appreciation for your contribution to Autodesk. You will always be a part of Autodesk's story, and I am grateful for everything you have done. Operator, we would now like to open the call up for questions.
Thank you. [Operator instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Saket Kalia of Barclays. Please go ahead, Saket.
OK. Great. Hey, guys, thanks for taking my questions here, and welcome, Janesh.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Absolutely. Andrew, maybe to start with you. I want to zoom into the 10% to 15% medium growth rate a little bit. And if I'm understanding your comments correctly, the rate of new business growth is the key reason why that medium-term growth rate maybe is no longer appropriate.
And you've been talking about slow new business for a while now. Maybe the question is, what drives that new business growth higher over time?
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. Saket, good to talk to you. Thanks for this question. Look, first off, I think you've got the thinking right upfront.
Let me just comment a little bit on what's happened in the past and then I'll answer the substance of your question. So first off, if we look back in the past, there's a couple of things that were really impacting new business growth as we were moving to the last couple of years. One is all the things that Autodesk was changing. So we changed a lot of things that has a measurable impact on partner productivity with regards to balancing renewals and new business.
The other thing was economic uncertainty, all the things associated with the macro environment. These things impaired some of our customers' willingness to invest in their business. So those things happened latently in the past. Moving forward, there's some things that we have control of and that we don't have control of that are going to drive us back on to our growth path.
The first thing, if we look at the things we don't have control, we don't have control of the macro uncertainty. That's going to continue, and that will definitely impact some of our customers' thinking. But what we do have control of is in two key areas, one related to new product subs and one related to our new businesses that primarily show up in the make category, the emerging and high-growth businesses. With regard to the former, we are on a journey of go-to-market optimization right now, and that is going to enhance the productivity of our channel.
We've been impacting their productivity with all the change. We're on a cycle now where over a period of time, we'll be increasing their productivity. That's going to allow them to focus more on new business growth. That's in our control.
The other thing that's in our control is during this current risk cycle, we actually invested in driving the growth of our emerging and high-growth business on the make side. And that includes investing in the industry cloud, the core cloud platform and in AI. So these things are going to not only continue the current momentum, but our goal is to enhance the current momentum. And these are high-growth businesses having long-term impacts on our business.
So those are the things that are in our control that get us back to a place where we can feel confident in reinforcing the floor of our long-term business growth.
Got it. Got it. And maybe that's a natural segue for you, Janesh. I mean, as you know, margin potential has been one of the key investor debates on Autodesk.
And so, I mean, I think maybe to start, it's important to flag that margins here for '25 were ahead and the guide for '26 is higher than expected as well. But maybe you could just give us a little bit more color on the margin potential here. And how today's restructuring announcement, to Andrew's point, maybe fits into that debate?
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Saket. I appreciate this is one of the foremost issues on investors' minds. As I step back and look at fiscal '25 first, we are actually really pleased that we delivered strong outperformance here, thanks to our strong fiscal discipline in the fourth quarter. And I want to thank Betsy for setting us up for a strong Q4 on that front.
Today's announcement does reflect the continuation of our multiyear journey as Andrew was talking about to evolve our go-to-market, and it fits in very nicely with our overall margin expansion goals. It's something that the team had been planning for thoughtfully since the introduction of the new transaction model. It's also allowing us to expand our underlying non-GAAP operating margin quite meaningfully this year when you hold aside the effects of the new transaction model. So when I look at it, serving customers better through tighter integration and more self-service, it eventually expands our market opportunity and also ultimately lowers the unit cost of serving those customers, which will help driving even more efficient go-to-market motion in the future.
So we have conviction in our potential to drive higher margins over time as we execute this plan and as we focus on future opportunities that I touched on in the opening commentary.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Thank you. Our next question comes from Adam Borg of Stifel. Please go ahead, Adam.
Awesome. Thanks so much for taking the question, and I'd like to extend the welcome to Janesh as well. Maybe for Andrew, just piggyback on a comment you just made to Saket's question around just macro uncertainty and obviously, things that are outside of your control. I'd love to hear a little bit more about kind of what you're hearing with your customer conversations around overall sentiment, how that's playing out overall.
And then, maybe talk a little bit about the new administration and some potential puts and takes there either shortening regulation being a tailwind or some questions around tariffs, immigration policy and how that ultimately impacts customers and their decision-making over the next six to 12 months? Thanks so much.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. OK, Adam. Thanks for that question. So first off, our business is resilient enough.
It's diversified enough that it can absorb and react to any kind of policy changes in a sustainable way. The thing I'm hearing from our customers is they want certainty. It's uncertainty that's kind of fueling customer angst. It's not what the output is, what the answer is, it's just the uncertainty.
And that's the thing that we want to move fast -- past. We want to move to certainty, policy. Once policy is in place, I have faith in Autodesk's business to navigate whatever the policy is. But uncertainty is not something that our customers want to work through.
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jay Vleeschhouwer of Griffin Securities. Please go ahead, Jay.
Thank you. Good evening. Andrew, with respect to the 10% to 15% growth range you've previously spoken of, the company at its last analyst meeting gave us multiple elements of that. In other words, a variety of price and volume components for that, most of which have to do with your core business, as you call it, renewal and expansion within the core business, less so with new or adjacent businesses.
So maybe break down that thinking about the growth range in those terms, perhaps with regard to how you're thinking about pricing leverage from here and the multiple elements of Q or volume that you had previously spoken of. Then I have a product question.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah, Jay, I'm going to go back to what I said previously and focus on these two key elements. Enhancing channel productivity as we move through all these changes, that is a critical thing for us. It's part of our ongoing optimization cycle. It's gonna be something that delivers over multiple years.
That will create a tailwind within our channel business for some of these core subs issues. And I think that's the more important thing to focus on. And the emerging businesses have always been a part of our plan. And I think you see very clearly that the make businesses are growing robustly and we are investing to make sure that those continue to grow at that rate or accelerate beyond that rate.
So that's where you want to focus right now in terms of getting the business back to where we want it to be over time.
OK. Outside of the various go-to-market changes and optimization and so forth, what would you say for this year and beyond are the critical product or technology executables that you are reallocating to or investing in? Maybe talk about how you're thinking about the business impact of platform services, the new data models and so on and so forth, things that we've talked about consistently most recently at AU.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. So what we're doing is we're accelerating some of the road maps associated with our industry cloud. So you're going to see more activity associated with the construction side and the forma side of the AEC industry cloud. And you're going to see more energy and activity associated with the fusion cloud and some of the things associated to driving that.
So there's investments made in that. Within the core platform, it's all about expanding the granular data that's available to our customers, expanding the footprint of APIs that are available to our customers and investing in that so that we can accelerate not only what our customers are accessing but the common services that the industry clouds are accessing. So that's part of the investment. And of course, we are going to continue to turn the crank on some of the AR features.
As you know, Jay, we just introduced our first commercial AI, a generative AI feature into fusion. It's the AutoConstrain feature. It's out there, getting used by our users. It's got approximately a 50% acceptance rate, which is a really high rate for a generative technology and it just gets smarter as it goes.
That's a real productivity tool for our customers that really makes a difference. There's gonna be more of those, right? And that's where the investment is going.
Thank you. Our next question comes from Jason Celino of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead, Jason.
Great. Thanks for taking my question. One question on the guide and then the reduction in force. Now I'm cognizant that you've got some business momentum, and I understand why you're making the changes.
But does the revenue guide assume any extra conservatism just on potential of disruption? It's just the change is quite a large reduction. So I guess, what have you built into the guide relative to that?
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Hey, this is Janesh. Maybe I'll take that. So as I mentioned in the opening commentary, our approach to building the guidance for fiscal '26 did consider a range of possible outcomes from our overall bottoms-up sales forecast. And then, we did factor in some level of risk potential associated with the restructuring plans and the CRO transition.
We've put in place good mitigation plans and actions that we have to manage those. But we thought it's prudent to consider these in our outlook. So our guidance does reflect that.
OK. I appreciate that. And then, on prior calls, there were some mentions of a bigger EBA cohort, multiyear customers coming up for renewals, that wasn't really brought up on this call. Is that still an opportunity for you for this year? And any details on how big of a cohort this might be or what's built-in? Thank you.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
It's still an opportunity. We didn't reference it discretely because we have mentioned it before. Nothing has really changed on that front. We've got both the EBA cohort, as well as the product subscription multiyear cohorts that will come up for renewal later this year.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Thank you. Our next question comes from Taylor McGinnis of UBS. Please go ahead, Taylor.
Yeah. Hi. Thanks so much for taking my question. Just on the margin guide.
So the underlying 300 basis points of margin improvement is really strong. But can you just break down and quantify the drivers of that expansion? So how much is from cost savings, like scaling back on some of the duplicative costs and streamlining the sales force? How much might be from cost savings associated with the risk? And then, maybe just secondly, when we think about the margin potential beyond 2026, I guess, any initial thoughts you can provide there? Thanks.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, I'm happy to take that. So as we think about the overall impact in fiscal '26 and the underlying operating margin increase that we're guiding to, that demonstrates our overall commitment to expanding profitability this year, obviously, but it's part of our longer-term plans. The reinvestment and our organic hiring plans, all of that is an integrated plan. You mentioned the actions that we've taken in the field organization and the risks, and that's all part of the same plan.
We also had our organic hiring plans that we had for fiscal '26. So it's hard to break all of that apart. But that said, to just give you a sense of how we are thinking about it, if you look at our fiscal '25 total spending, that grew 7% year over year, excluding the new transaction model. And our fiscal '26 total spending, that implies growth of only 4% year over year on a similar basis in constant currency.
So that gives you a sense of the extent of both the optimization and the spend discipline that we are driving in the business overall. And then, as I think a little bit ahead on fiscal '27, we are committed to further margin expansion beyond fiscal '26 on an underlying basis, as we've talked about. And that will continue. And ultimately, when that overall go-to-market optimization is complete, we expect that we have GAAP margins among the best in the industry, and we'll share a little bit more details in terms of what that means when we get to our investor day in the third quarter.
Thank you. Next question comes from Bhavin Shah of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead, Bhavin.
Great. Thanks for taking my question. Janesh, just kind of following up on that, what's the timeline you guys are thinking about in terms of kind of seeing some of the benefits from a lot of the adjustments you're making to sales and marketing? And when do you kind of see that sales and marketing efficiencies show up from a revenue perspective?
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. Bhavin, clearly, we are seeing a significant benefit here in fiscal '26 itself. As I mentioned, that's a big part of the underlying margin expansion that we are delivering. With respect to what that translates to for fiscal '27 and beyond, as I mentioned, we've got more work to do in terms of the next set of activities that we need to plan for as we think about what it means to drive tighter channel partner integrations and build the capabilities that we need for self-service.
We're investing this year to build those capabilities so that we can be set up to lower our overall cost to serve our customers in future years. And again, we will spell some of the details out around that in the investor day in the third quarter.
That's super helpful. And just one quick follow-up. I mean, it sounds like you guys are gonna be pretty aggressive from a shareholders' return perspective in fiscal '26 and kind of given some of the changes you're talking about from the top-line perspective and focus on efficiencies, how are you now thinking about M&A? And do these actions change your view at all?
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah, Bhavin, our view on M&A doesn't change. We've always been an acquisitive company. We're always looking for anything that can accelerate our strategy or take us into adjacencies that we think are relevant to the company. But that's consistent with previous stances on this.
If we see something like that, we will act on it.
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Vruwink of Baird. Joe, your line is open. Joe, your line is open.
Great. Sorry, I was on mute. I'll get those right one of these times. I wanted to go back a few questions just on the year-over-year margin assumptions.
It looks like if I'm reading Slide 10 correctly, you're assuming that agency change is about a 6-point impact on growth in the upcoming year. So I think that means a 6-point headwind on margins. You're kind of guiding to margins flat to slightly up. So can you bridge the 6 points you're able to layer back on to get to where you're guiding the year?
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Joe, I'm happy to take that. A 6-point revenue headwind is the right way to think about the top line, but that doesn't translate to a 6-point margin headwind. You'll see on that same slide that we've actually just spelled out for you exactly what the margin headwind is as well. It's 3 percentage points.
So on an as-reported basis our -- we would expect to ultimately have 36% to 37%, and that's the same in constant currency. But once you adjust to the new transaction model, as well as currency, that rises to 39% to 40%.
OK. And that's the underlying you're talking about. OK. And then --
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
That's right. Keep in mind, you've got partner commissions that we pay as well in that model.
Yeah. OK. Understood. And then, going to just -- it makes sense that as you see a slower new subscriber addition that builds over time and kind of compresses the revenue growth rate.
I guess, the one thing that's a bit surprising is the growth rates in the AEC product segments are still really good, and I think this quarter was 14%. And that seems just as difficult an environment as what manufacturing customers and a lot of we are going through. Do you think you're kind of outperforming there in that segment and maybe there's challenges elsewhere because it would seem like the AEC performance is ultimately standing out in this environment?
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. So what you're seeing in AEC is you're seeing our construction performance, all right? Construction is doing quite well. You saw that we added 400 new logos. We've got a building momentum there.
We've got a great product. Looking forward, we're very bullish about where we are taking the construction business. The payment business is doing well. We're seeing wonderful growth associated with that.
Customers like the product. They have plans to implement it. They're really attracted to the broad end-to-end solution. That's what people are buying for, their future, not for their present needs.
They're trying to get in front of where they need to be. That's what you're seeing in AEC. I also want to make sure that I just address something you said. Remember, with regards to manufacturing growth, you just have to take into account that we had some upfront revenue compared to last year.
Those upfront revenue blips kind of have a disproportionate impact on how the manufacturing looks when you account for that that growth is actually in low double digits. So we're actually performing well there as well relative to peers, especially on a full-year basis. So what you're seeing in AEC, that's why you want to see us drive those make businesses even more because they're really having an impact. Revit's doing great.
There's no doubt, but construction is doing fantastic.
Thank you. Our next question comes from Elizabeth Porter of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, Elizabeth.
Great. Thank you very much for the question. Self-service sounds like a pretty big opportunity to drive the underlying efficiency. And just given Autodesk can be a complex piece of software that does require some higher touch from sales or partners.
Just how should we think about the base of business that could be applicable to self-service? Any sort of comments to help us understand kind of where it is today and where it could go over time would be very helpful. Thank you.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. Self-service can touch just about every aspect of our business from a transactional point of view. So for instance, as a matter of fact, some of our reinvestments are going into improving some of these self-service capabilities right out of the gate. So on a transaction basis, the easier you make it for customers to see what they own, manage what they own, add new seats and all the things and be aware of what their users are using and where they might need more capacity, that drives upsell and cross-sell immediately.
The other aspects of self-service on the support level, look, there's a bunch of things that our customers come in and do that are very low-value transactions that we're getting significantly better at building systems that can automatically address those needs with the customer so that we can focus our human resources on the high-value returns. So every aspect of the business can benefit from an improved and enhanced self-service. And there's lots of low-hanging fruit as we move forward in terms of making the self-service capabilities easier to access, easier to use and more complete in terms of how they work with our customers.
Great. And then, just given we are just now entering this optimization phase for sales and marketing, and it is gonna be a multiyear journey, it sounds like. At a high level, could you just help us understand a bit more what are some of the near-term versus longer-term key milestones we should look toward as we're going through this optimization phase?
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. So first off, let me just remind everybody, this optimization phase is a deliberately planned activity connected to the last two years of changes. When we began the move to the new transaction model is when we began the planning of this optimization phase. So this is a purposeful, deliberate planned-out effort.
The high-level main focuses for this are on optimizing certain processes, enhancing self-service like I talked about earlier, and also, improving efficiency and tightening the relationships with our partners so that we just generally reduce duplication and get more efficiency from the whole system overall. The initial phases were focused primarily on some of our marketing efficiency and some of the marketing-related go-to-market aspects of our efficiency. As we move forward, you're going to see us drill a little bit more into making sure that we're creating tighter relationships with our partners and ensuring that there's more optimization in terms of productivity associated with partner relationships, and you're going to see self-service have a bigger impact on the business moving forward. So considering a continuum from starting with the marketing optimization, moving through a continuum to enhancing partner engagement and getting more efficient there all the way through maximizing returns on self-service.
All of that is going to deliver long-term margin improvement for the -- operating income improvement for the company.
Thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Hedberg of RBC. Matt, Your line is open.
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. And congrats again, Janesh. Really look forward to working with you again here at Autodesk.
And starting out the year with a really strong free cash flow guide is really great to see as well. Maybe, Andrew, you talked a little bit earlier about fusion, GenAI, the product launch there. I guess, I'm just wondering more philosophically, could you talk about sort of how we should think about additional generative AI rollouts across the product portfolio, how we should think about pricing? And just kind of the sensitivity around some of these data models given, obviously, a lot of it's customer specific.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. Look, we're very much focused on enhancing customer productivity with these tools. As the tools get more and more productive, obviously, there's opportunity to charge additional money for really high-productivity AI features so that we capture some of the productivity we bring to the customers. We share some of the productivity with them, and we capture some of the value back to us.
What you're seeing with some of these early features is essentially things that help the customer build 3D models more quickly, more rapidly with a lot less labor. So that's really hitting them right in their productivity and it also makes our products much more competitive in situations, especially in fusion land, where we are dealing with a very large ecosystem of products that we compete with and this essentially sets up fusion to be much more competitive as we move forward. If you look forward at some of the things we're doing in AEC, forma is really dedicated to servicing AI capabilities that allow people to be much more productive creating, building information models in a completely different way. We've already rolled out early conceptual features around analysis, around tools that help people make initial sizing, set up kind of doors and windows and initial frameworks.
This has a huge possibility to bring BIM to the masses, meaning bring building information modeling down to smaller and smaller companies that have found Revit out of reach for both their capabilities and their budgets. Forma has an opportunity to really expand the footprint of who can do building information modeling. And that's one of the things we are targeting with those long term. So look for AI to provide not only new productivity, better competitive value and long-term potentially higher monetization for some of these highly productive features, but also look for it to expand our market footprint.
Got it. That's super helpful. And then, Janesh, one for you, it sounds like we're going to get maybe a bit more color on kind of a midterm model perhaps on the Q3 analyst day. And so, maybe just as a follow-up question to kind of thinking about the lower end of that 10% to 15% guidance range.
I guess, how should we think about like maybe a floor of growth? We're getting that from a couple of investors today. Is there kind of a way to think about like -- is it kind of like high single digits? Is it 10%? Just any way to kind of think about how you think about kind of the lower end of kind of a growth outcome.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Matt, great to be reconnected and looking forward to working with you, actually. So in terms of that growth range of the bottom end of that framework of around 10%, if you look back over the last couple of years, that's where we fundamentally have been. And in fiscal '26, we are guiding to the 8% to 9% in constant currency, excluding the new transaction model effect. And actually, that's consistent with the underlying growth that we delivered in fiscal '25.
So overall, we think that the business is resilient, and we've had consistent performance over a period of time, and our focus fundamentally is actually on driving sustainable growth as we continue to focus on new business growth and driving our make business, especially through construction and manufacturing and the overall platform strategy like Andrew was saying.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joshua Tilton of Wolfe Research. Please go ahead, Joshua.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Great. Thanks for sneaking me in. I have two quick ones. The first question is, is there any sense you can give -- you can just help us understand maybe where the NRR finished for the year relative to what you're guiding to for revenue for next year? So for example, you're guiding to about 8.5% core growth ex-transition for next year.
Like where relative to that are existing customers growing finishing this year? And then, my second question is just a little more simple. How much of the recent restructuring or risk announcement benefit is factored into the current operating margin guidance for this year?
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. Maybe I'll just address both of those. So in terms of the net retention rate, you'll see that we've -- in the modeling guidelines, we've provided a view on how we're thinking about fiscal '26, which is basically the same as it was in fiscal '25. It's a range of 100% to 110%.
And I realize that's a wide range, and we are essentially guiding to 8% to 9% growth on the underlying. But the way I think about that is that the net retention rate essentially hovers around the middle of the range. It can bounce around by a few points in any particular quarter. That's why we put a reasonably wide range to it.
And so, that's how we are thinking about that piece. And I'm sorry, would you mind repeating the second question, please?
Yeah. Just how much of the recent risk announcement or layoff announcement benefit is baked into the current operating margin guidance for this year?
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. So as we built the operating margin guidance for the year, obviously, any savings from the action of is baked into the guidance already. But as I talked about earlier, the reinvestment and our organic hiring plan that we had built for fiscal '26 is really an integrated plan. And so, if I think about the overall spending growth that we've baked into the model, which might be a different way to look at it, that spending growth overall for fiscal '26, again, holding aside the effect of the new transaction model is slowing from 7% last year to 4% this year in constant currency.
Thank you. Our next question comes from Michael Turrin of Wells Fargo Securities. Your question, please, Michael.
Hey. Great. Thanks. I appreciate you taking the question.
I know there have been a few different angles on this. But Janesh, just on the commentary around the long-term target, just any perspective you can add given it's early in your tenure, so decision process that went into this? And maybe help us parse how much is using a different set of assumptions there or just any more context you can add because that's where we're getting the most questions initially.
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
Yeah, I'm happy to talk about that. And look, fundamentally, my view on the business is very similar to what we've experienced in the past. And coming into the business, recognizing that for the past couple of years, we've been hovering around the low end of that range and fiscal '26 on an apples-to-apples basis is very similar. The reality is we've just not been in the middle to high end of that range.
And that's -- as I looked at the ranges, it felt inappropriate to have a range out there if we have not delivered against that in the last couple of years, at least being toward the middle or high end of that. And that was really the core principle behind this. But fundamentally, when I look at the business, as I said, we delivered consistently, and it's a resilient business. You've seen us deliver over the last couple of years when there's been a lot of external factors that have been outside of our control.
You've seen us do that through the business model transitions we've been driving. We've got a strong and loyal customer base. Our products are in market-leading positions. We feel very good about our position overall.
Yeah, that's helpful color. And then, Andrew, just on the headcount reduction. I know these are tough decisions. Maybe just speak to how you ensure you're making the right level of change there, balancing efficiency with preserving the continuity and business momentum you're seeing? Thanks.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. So we look at these things definitely over a long time frame, and we are definitely trying to balance the risk short term with the reward long term in terms of what we did. And we feel like we've taken a really balanced approach here. You can see we've reinvested some of the money into future systems and capabilities that will allow us to do additional optimizations in the future.
So we're trying to make sure that we cut the right kind of balance here so that we keep the business moving in the right direction, and we factored a lot of that risk into the way we're guiding. So I think we've done it right. And I think the ongoing optimizations are going to continue to deliver increasing profits as we move forward into next year.
Thank you. Our next question comes from Ken Wong of Oppenheimer & Company. Please go ahead, Ken.
Great. Maybe the last one on just that 10% to 15% range. I realize inappropriate to kind of keep that out there given the conditions and the performance. But with all the improvements that you guys are putting through with the go-to-market changes, the work with the channel, I mean, should we think about the other side of this when macro is fine, when you guys have delivered on the go-to-market changes that that 10% to 15% is back in play? Is it arguably maybe even a better number? Help us think through what the end goal with some of these changes would be in respect to what were the prior 10% to 15% goals.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
So Ken, where we're at right now is just a tacit acknowledgment of where the business is right now. What you're not hearing is a reduction in face of the long-term growth potential for the company, all right? The areas we're talking about are the areas that really need to improve to drive the kind of behavior we want long term. It's all about getting the channel more productive. That's gonna be a result of some of the changes that we're doing right now in some of the optimizations.
The more productive the channel is, the more energy it has to spend on new business, the more the new business starts to build up over time and actually show up as revenue growth over time. The other thing is we're really excited about moving the design and make solution in a lot of our customers. So watch that make bucket because that's a clear sign that we're being successful penetrating the end-to-end solution. That is real long-term new growth for Autodesk.
And by investing in that, we're essentially front-loading the capability to keep building up that book of business, which then shows up in the top line over time. So that's the way to look at it. It's not a retreat from confidence in the long-term growth structure of the business, quite the contrary, but it is an acknowledgment of where we are at today.
Got it. OK. Perfect. And then, just a quick follow-up on, like, look, you guys have rolled out across all three regions now as far as the agency transition.
Any update on how kind of those three areas are tracking? Obviously, we have the Americas, which were kind of a little further along, but you just rolled out APAC. Would just love a sense of kind of how those are mapping relative to internal plans.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Yeah. So for the most part, things are going as we planned. There's an initial kind of pull forward of the business, then there's some production in new business as people go through getting their systems set up and renewing. We did see a few more productivity problems as we were hitting the end of all these rollouts than was originally expected, but we're now working through all of that.
But for the most part, this is perceived as we expected, with a little bit more kind of, OK, we have some work to do to help the partners manage these systems effectively moving forward.
OK. Perfect. Thank you so much, Andrew.
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, that is all the time we have for Q&A today. I would now like to turn the conference back to Simon Mays-Smith for closing remarks.
Simon Mays-Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We'll look forward to seeing many of you over the coming weeks. If you have any questions, please just email me, [email protected]. And we look forward to catching up on our Q1 earnings call.
Thanks so much, Latif. And goodbye, everyone.
Simon Mays-Smith -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Andrew Anagnost -- President and Chief Executive Officer, and Director
Janesh Moorjani -- Chief Financial Officer
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not


================================================================================
TICKER: LOW | DATE: 2026-04-24
================================================================================
Wednesday, Feb. 25, 2026 at 9 a.m. ET
Lowe's (LOW 0.01%) reported modest sales and earnings growth, with strength in Pro, online, and home services segments offsetting persistent macro headwinds. Management emphasized disciplined cost control, $1 billion in productivity improvements planned for 2026, and continued focus on omni-channel and AI-enabled operational enhancements to drive market share gains. Strategic integration of FBM and ADG is expected to be earnings accretive but will dilute operating margin, with $8 billion in projected combined sales.
Marvin Ellison: Thank you, Kate. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. In the fourth quarter, sales were $20.6 billion and comparable sales increased 1.3%. For fiscal year 2025, we delivered sales of $86.3 billion, positive comparable sales of 0.2% and adjusted operating margin of 12.1%. This led to adjusted earnings per share of $12.28, a 2% increase over last year. Despite a challenging industry backdrop, our relentless focus on expense management allowed us to hold adjusted operating margins flat to the prior year when excluding the impact of our recent acquisitions. While our outperformance in the fourth quarter demonstrates our team's disciplined execution, our outlook for 2026 remains cautious given the persistent volatility in housing macro.
This uncertainty continues to pressure big-ticket discretionary DIY projects as many consumers are reluctant to make significant investments in their homes. Within this challenging macro environment, it is imperative to remain focused on our perpetual productivity improvement or PPI initiatives. This commitment to PPI is at the center of the announcement we made recently to eliminate approximately 600 corporate and support roles. Although these are difficult decisions to make, this workforce reduction will help us create greater financial agility within our dynamic industry while continuing to invest in customer-facing areas of the company.
We will continue to manage what is within our control, which is reflected in the strength we delivered across Pro, online and home services as our total home strategic initiatives are resonating with our small to medium Pro and DIY customers alike. Starting with our Pro results, we delivered another quarter of growth as we continue to gain traction with our transformed offering. Our Pro customers are responding to our compelling brand and product assortment, investments in inventory, job site delivery, enhanced service levels and a tailored digital experience, and we're further enhancing our Pro brand offering by extending our assortment of the #1 power tool brand, DEWALT, the tool of choice for Pros for over 100 years.
We are excited that we now carry the largest selection of the walk power tools and accessories in our stores and online. Moving to online. We delivered a 10.5% growth this quarter and set new sales records this holiday season on both Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Both DIY and Pro customers continue to shift their shopping online as our enhanced user experience and fulfillment options offer the ease and convenience they are seeking. In fact, on Black Friday, our Lowe's app was so popular that it was the #1 free app in the shopping category on Apple's App Store in the U.S. This level of engagement reflects the investments we've made to create a seamless omnichannel shopping experience.
And as customers continue to integrate AI into their shopping habits, we are collaborating with leading digital platform so that we are well positioned to participate in Agentic commerce. Now turning to home services, where we delivered high single-digit growth. This is another example of a customer experience that we have overhauled at Lowe's by removing the friction for what was a time-consuming process through digital tools and enhanced service to create an intuitive installation solution for our do-it-for-me customers. Let me now shift to our view of the broader macro environment. Consumer confidence remains subdued given inflationary pressures and overall economic uncertainty.
And despite modest relief in short-term interest rates and market expectation for additional Fed cuts, mortgage rates remain elevated. As a result, a persistent lock-in effect remains in place keeping housing turnover and new home stars under pressure, leading us to expect improvement in both the housing and home improvement markets to be gradual. That said, the structural demand drivers of the home improvement industry remain strong with home equity setting new record levels and homes continuing to age, averaging 44 years old. With the chronic supply-demand imbalance in housing, analysts continue to expect that approximately 16 million new homes will be needed in the United States over the next decade.
Despite near-term industry headwinds, we're pleased that our investments in our total home strategy and operational excellence are paying dividends. Our compelling product assortments, flexible fulfillment options, innovative installation solutions, and best-in-class digital experiences are appealing to both the value-conscious homeowner and the busy pro. We're confident that these investments position the company to outperform the market, regardless of macro conditions. With the recent acquisitions of Foundation Building Materials, or FBM, and Artisan Design Group, or ADG, we are well-positioned to participate in the expected recovery in housing. As we start the year with these two companies, our integration efforts are on track, and we're focused on capturing cost synergies by leveraging our combined scale.
We're also developing solutions to support cross-selling opportunities that will enhance our offering to our respective pro customers by capitalizing on complementary product offerings. While FBM and ADG are navigating a challenging residential construction market, we expect them to build on their leadership position this year, leveraging their reputation for exceptional customer service while maintaining operational discipline. In addition, we're pleased with FBM's commercial business, which represents roughly half of its revenue, as they continue to win new data center contracts, which reflects the benefits of a diverse customer base.
Before I close, I want to take a moment to recognize our frontline associates who continue to show up every day with a strong sense of ownership and commitment to serving our customers and communities. As a demonstration of our appreciation for their efforts, we awarded a discretionary bonus of $125 million to our dedicated frontline associates for their outstanding performance in the fourth quarter. This includes our assistant store managers, department supervisors, and hourly associates in our stores and distribution centers. It's an honor for me to continue to support these hardworking men and women. Our dedicated frontline associates are the primary reason Lowe's was recently recognized as Fortune's #1 most admired specialty retailer.
This honor truly belongs to them. I'd like to congratulate our team for delivering another year of outstanding customer service. With that, I'll turn it over to Bill.
William Boltz: Thanks, Marvin. Good morning. We're pleased with our sales performance this quarter as we delivered positive comps in 9 of our 14 merchandising divisions. Our teams remain focused on offering value and innovation to consumers who continue to be mindful about their home improvement spending. This holiday season, we helped our customers celebrate with exciting offers and deals on appliances, tools, Trim-A-Tree, and more, making Lowe's a popular destination for holiday shoppers, both in-store and online. Starting with building Products. We delivered broad-based growth, driven by solid performance in both Pro and home services. Rough plumbing was a standout, with continued strength in water heaters, water treatment, and HVAC, along with strength in other Pro-focused areas within our plumbing assortments.
This includes a new merchandising display for SharkBite PEX pipe and fittings. It showcases straight pipes stacked upright, which Pros prefer over coiled Product, as it makes it easier for them to use on the job site. We delivered positive comps in millwork with strong performance, especially in windows and doors, supported by leading brands such as Pella, Therma-Tru, and LARSON, which are exclusive to Lowe's in the Home Center channel. Our convenient installation solutions, combined with our affordable credit offers, are helping customers manage these larger replacement projects. Turning to home decor, where we delivered positive comps across kitchens and bath, paint, and in appliances, where we continue to build on our market leadership position.
With the widest assortment of leading brands, competitive pricing, and rapid delivery, consumers are turning to Lowe's more often for their appliance needs, whether urgent or planned. As a reminder, Lowe's remains the only retailer that can deliver and install major appliances next day in virtually every zip code in the U.S. In kitchens and bath, our recent reset in bathroom vanities continues to drive results as customers appreciate the improved shopping experience and the easier access to big and bulky products.
Within our bath program, we're pleased that we've been selected by TOTO to be the first big box retailer to offer their innovative toilets as we leverage our larger showrooms to feature their premium product, which will be exclusive to Lowe's in the Home Center channel. This quarter, we were also encouraged by our results in paint, where we delivered positive comps with broad-based growth across interior and exterior paint, primers, stain, and attachments, as customers took advantage of milder weather earlier in the quarter to work on outdoor projects. We're off to a great start with the new Sherwin-Williams ProBlock Quick Dry Primers, which we introduced in Q3.
Pros are responding to the superior quality and performance versus the competition, helping to drive double-digit Pro comps in primers in Q4. Looking now at hardlines. We delivered growth in hardware, seasonal and outdoor living, and lawn and garden, driven by strong holiday and gift-giving assortments, along with storm-related demand. It was exciting to see customers line up at our stores early on Black Friday, inspired by our creator network, to take advantage of our My Lowe's Rewards Blue Bucket giveaway, including a chance to win a golden ticket for a free appliance priced at $2,000 or less.
Our holiday Trim-A-Tree assortment was also a hit, driven by our strength in animatronics, and customers also responded to great deals in the Tools Gift Center with values from Klein, DEWALT, Bosch, and Kobalt. We also had compelling member-only deals online as well, where we delivered yet another record for the Black Friday/Cyber Monday weekend, along with several viral moments that centered around our bucket giveaway and trending Products like mini buckets, teeny totes, and mini toolboxes. In January, we helped customers prepare for winter storms Fern and Gianna with generators, snowblowers, ice melt, flashlights, and gas cans, which contributed to positive comps in seasonal and outdoor living and lawn and garden.
In the quarter, we also completed the rollout of pet and workwear to more than 1,000 stores as we continue to expand our offering of convenience items that help our busy customers make the most of their shopping trips. Given the solid results from these new assortments, we'll be expanding them to the remainder of our stores in 2026. Shifting gears, our teams are delivering against our ongoing perpetual productivity improvement, or PPI initiatives, which I outlined at our last Analyst and Investor Conference. These include disciplined product cost management, improving inventory productivity, maintaining a disciplined approach to pricing and promotions, and expanding Lowe's Media Network.
This year, our supply chain, merchandising, and finance teams drove inventory productivity and completed our multiyear SKU rationalization initiative, while also effectively navigating an unprecedented volume of tariffs and ensuring strong in-stocks to drive sales. We are growing our Lowe's Media Network as we help our suppliers better connect with our shared customers, leveraging insights gained through our loyalty programs. As we look ahead into 2026, we'll empower our merchants with new AI tools that make their workday more efficient, freeing up time for them to focus on driving sales and optimizing our product assortments.
We will also introduce new tools to our merchandising services team, or MST associates, that will direct them to service the right base at the right time based on the sales trends of their store. Looking ahead to spring, we're ready to capitalize on the demand driven by our biggest season of the year with great values, the best products and brands, and strong in-stocks to help our customers tackle all their spring projects. We have an unmatched outdoor power equipment lineup in the home center channel, the only one to offer Toro, the leading gas-powered brand, and EGO, the leading battery-powered brand.
We have a wide array of grills to choose from across Weber, Char-Broil, Blackstone, Pit Boss, along with our own private brand, Master Forge. Our new patio lineup is stronger than ever, designed to help our customers enjoy their outdoor living spaces in style. We will also continue to earn customer loyalty through our DIY loyalty Program, My Lowe's Rewards. We recently introduced a new perk for members, My Lowe's Rewards Kids Club, featuring in-store workshops, family engagement events, and giveaways for young DIYers, helping us connect with the next generation of homeowners. As part of these efforts, we are also excited to expand our relationship with the number one influencer in the world, MrBeast.
Later this spring, you'll see us activate this partnership across family experiences, merchandise, and more. As I close, I want to thank our merchants, MST associates, and vendor partners for their hard work and partnership this year. Their focus on delivering the best for our customers really sets the bar, and we value the important role that all of them play in helping to drive our success. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Joe.
Joseph McFarland: Thank you, Bill. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to begin by thanking our frontline associates and store leaders for their outstanding work, supporting our customers impacted by Winter Storms Fern and Gianna, reflecting the critical role our stores play during hard-hitting weather events. Their commitment matters. It is just one example of the ongoing focus on customer service that our associates deliver day in and day out. Once again, this quarter, we drove improved customer satisfaction for both DIY and Pro customers, including during another busy Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend. Customers appreciated our flexible fulfillment options during the busy holiday season, as they relied especially on same-day gig delivery to meet last-minute shopping needs.
Turning to our fourth quarter performance, I'm pleased that we delivered another quarter of growth in Pro. We are building on our momentum by expanding our Pro sales force, which allows us to reach new customers while also growing share of wallet with existing Pros, including in their planned spend. With the recent rollout of our new AI-enabled Pro Companion, we're giving our Pro sales team even more opportunities for success. This new capability helps sales associates quickly prepare for conversations with Pros by enabling rapid access to relevant information so they can walk in with recommendations already in hand, leading to more effective customer interactions.
We're helping the sales associates at the Pro desk serve complex orders through the Pro Extended Aisle, which is a direct interface to our suppliers' catalogs. We've just introduced a new feature that allows us to stage job site delivery, so Pros can get what they need immediately and then deliver the rest of the order at a later date based on their schedule. This new capability not only improves the customer experience, it replaces what was a time-consuming process for our associates with a single click. I'm also excited to share that Lowe's is now the exclusive national home improvement partner to the National Association of Home Builders, or NAHB.
This allows us to connect with their 140,000-plus Pros and offer member-only savings. Looking ahead, in our recent survey, our core Pro customer indicate they continue to work on smaller-ticket repair projects and that their backlogs remain stable. Now, let me discuss the progress we've made this year against our perpetual Productivity improvement initiatives or PPI. As a reminder, each year, our store operations teams tackle a number of productivity initiatives. Let me give you a couple of highlights from 2025. In the fourth quarter, we completed the rollout of our front-end transformation across our store portfolio.
This multiyear effort meaningfully improves the checkout experience for customers while freeing up labor hours, so associates can spend more time serving customers in the aisle. The transformed front end includes an expanded buy online, pickup in store area that makes it faster and easier for our customers to grab their online orders, helping us better serve the continued shift to omni-channel shopping. We've also enhanced our freight flow as part of our PPI work. By redesigning the process and leveraging tech-driven solutions, we've made meaningful gains in labor productivity as we more efficiently move product from the truck to the sales floor. Looking ahead to fiscal 2026, we're already working on our next set of PPI initiatives.
One priority is to even further enhance our stocking through an initiative we're calling Freight Flow 3.0, which allows us to better sequence inbound inventory from our distribution centers. Overnight teams will focus on stocking the highest priority product immediately, while early morning teams arrive earlier to manage the remaining product flow. This approach means more associates are available to help our Pro customers when they arrive early to shop before heading to their job sites. These changes are already yielding better inventory accuracy and in-stocks, while also supporting customer service. Another PPI goal this year is our new full shelf replenishment initiative, which launched across all stores last month.
Using real-time data to identify out-of-stocks, this AI-enabled technology sends stores a prioritized list of the most critical items to restock, which helps ensure that products are available where and when customers need them. These enhancements are improving both the associate and customer experience. With better visibility, smarter prioritization, and more product on the shelf when it's needed, our stores are becoming easier to shop every day. Finally, as Marvin mentioned, we are recognizing our frontline teams in our stores and supply chains for their critical contributions to our results in the fourth quarter and this year with a discretionary bonus. Assistant store managers will receive $5,000, and hourly associates will receive bonuses ranging from $150 to $700.
These bonuses are on top of their normal incentive plans. These associates show up every day with a relentless focus on customers and eagerness to embrace new technology and a commitment to helping one another succeed. This bonus is a reflection of a culture of winning together that we have created. That's what sets Lowe's apart. With that, I will turn the call over to Brandon.
Brandon Sink: Thank you, Joe. Good morning. Starting with our fourth quarter results, we generated GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.78. In the quarter, we recognized $149 million in non-GAAP charges associated with the acquisitions of Foundation Building Materials, or FBM, and Artisan Design Group, or ADG. Keep in mind, in the fourth quarter of last year, we also recorded a pre-tax gain of $80 million associated with the 2022 sale of our Canadian retail business. Excluding these impacts, we delivered strong results for the quarter with adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.98. My comments from this point forward will include certain non-GAAP comparisons that exclude these impacts, where applicable.
Fourth quarter sales were $20.6 billion, with comparable sales up 1.3%, driven by growth in Pro, online, and home services, as well as winter storm activity. We estimate that the demand related to winter storms Fern and Gianna positively impacted Q4 comp sales by approximately 50 basis points. With a strong start to the holiday season, we delivered positive comps of 0.4% in November. Comps were down 1% in December, then accelerated to 5.8% in January, lifted by storm-related demand. Comparable average ticket increased 3.6%, driven by price increases and a mix into Pro and appliances, while comparable transactions declined 2.3%.
For the fourth quarter, adjusted gross margin was 32.7%, down 18 basis points as the dilutive impact of FBM and ADG was nearly offset by higher credit revenue, multiple PPI initiatives, and favorable Product mix. Adjusted SG&A was 21.4% of sales, deleveraging 37 basis points as higher frontline discretionary bonuses and annual incentive payouts, as well as sales-driving actions, were partly offset by the accretive impact from the acquisitions. Adjusted operating margin rate of 9% was down 41 basis points versus prior year, and the adjusted effective tax rate of 23.6% was consistent with the prior year rate.
Consistent with our expectations, FBM and ADG operating results were accretive to adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter, while diluting operating margin by approximately 30 basis points. Inventory ended Q4 at $17.3 billion, in line with prior year, despite the inclusion of approximately $500 million in inventory from acquisitions as well as higher tariffs. We continue to execute on multiple inventory productivity initiatives through AI-enabled solutions while also benefiting from SKU rationalization. These outstanding results demonstrate the strategic alignment and collaboration we're driving across the organization. Shifting gears to capital allocation.
In 2025, we generated $7.7 billion in free cash flow and returned $2.6 billion to shareholders through dividends, which includes a dividend of $1.20 per share in the fourth quarter, totaling $673 million. We invested approximately $3 billion in cash for the acquisitions of ADG and FBM, and borrowed $7 billion to finance the remainder of the purchase price of FBM. During the year, we also repaid $2.5 billion in bond maturities. Capital expenditures totaled $2.2 billion for the year, driven by investments in our Total Home strategic initiatives. Adjusted debt to EBITDA was 3.31 times at the end of the quarter.
We ended the quarter with $982 million of cash and cash equivalents and delivered return on invested capital of 26.1% for the year. I would like to discuss our 2026 financial outlook. While short-term interest rates have been coming down, affordability and the lock-in effect continue to pressure demand. Consumers are still cautious about discretionary big-ticket purchases. While many homeowners will receive larger refunds this year, it is unclear how much of that will be spent on home improvement. It is also unclear when mortgage rates will ease, which will continue to exert pressure on existing home sales and new home construction.
Taking all of this into account, we forecast the home improvement market to be roughly flat this year in a range of down 1% to up 1%. We remain confident in the continued execution of our Total Home strategy, which will enable us to grow faster than the market and take share. With that, we are expecting 2026 sales ranging from $92 billion to $94 billion, with comparable sales in a range of flat to up 2%. We anticipate that ADG and FBM will contribute approximately $8 billion to sales. We expect operating margin in a range of 11.2% to 11.4% and adjusted operating margin in a range of 11.6% to 11.8%.
This includes 30 basis points of dilution related to the wrap of FBM and ADG in 2026. As a reminder, the acquisitions drive approximately 50 basis points of dilution on an annualized basis. We expect gross margin to decline approximately 75 basis points compared to the prior year when we factor in the dilution related to the acquisitions. However, the acquisitions are accretive to consolidated SG&A as a % of sales. We will continue to drive our perpetual productivity improvement, or PPI initiatives, across the enterprise with a target of roughly $1 billion of productivity again this year. This includes the impact from the workforce reduction that Marvin mentioned earlier.
This productivity will offset pressure from merit increases and general operating cost inflation and continued investments in our Total Home strategic initiatives. Additionally, we expect net interest expense of approximately $1.6 billion as we absorb incremental expense related to the FBM acquisition, partly offset by planned repayment of $2.3 billion of bond maturities in the first quarter. These assumptions result in expected full-year diluted earnings per share of $11.75 to $12.25. We expect adjusted diluted earnings per share of approximately $12.25 to $12.75. This includes the impact from FBM and ADG, which is expected to be accretive to adjusted EPS for the year.
We also expect capital expenditures of approximately $2.5 billion for the year as we invest in our strategic imperatives to drive growth. This will be heavily concentrated in our retail business. Finally, to assist you with your modeling for the first quarter, here are a few points to keep in mind. Given severe winter storm activity in February, we are now expecting Q1 comp sales to be below the midpoint of our full-year guide. Adjusted operating margin rate is expected to be approximately 20 basis points below the bottom end of our full-year guide due to the dilutive impact of the acquisitions.
In closing, we're pleased with our track record of disciplined execution and that our DIY and Pro initiatives are gaining momentum. Looking ahead, we are confident that we're making the right investments to deliver long-term sales growth and sustainable shareholder value. With that, we will open it up for your questions.
Operator: [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Peter Benedict with Baird.
Peter Benedict: I guess my first one is just on the Pro Extended Aisle efforts that you guys started to kind of roll out last year. Just maybe give us a sense for where you are with that. It got a brief mention in the prepared marks, but I'm just curious kind of where you sit with that, what the opportunity is going forward. That's my first question.
Marvin Ellison: Peter, this is Marvin. Look, we continue a multiyear build-out for 2026. We're very pleased. It's actually exceeding all expectations. And we're adding new suppliers, new markets every single week, and we'll do that throughout 2026. You know, this is helping us create more traction with planned Pro spend. That's something that has been on our playbook for quite a while. We're excited to get new products like vinyl siding, building materials, doors, flooring, electrical wiring. Overall, we feel really good about this.
We're not yet providing specific financial results other than to say, this is exceeding expectations, assisting with the planned Pro spin, and something we're excited about, and we think it will help to drive our Pro business for the balance of this year.
Peter Benedict: I guess my follow-up would be maybe for Brandon, just how should we think about the incremental margins here once we get past, you know, integrating the acquisitions and the noise that's kind of related with that? I think there's a question out there in terms of, you know, as sales eventually start to recover, you know, what the flow through is gonna look like. Any updates to your thoughts there? Just level set us on what your view is there.
Brandon Sink: Yes. Sure, Peter. I'll start with the fact that, you know, we're very pleased here with our Q4 performance progression of the year. We had positive comps here for the last 3 quarters. Marvin announced a payout to our frontline associates of $125 million in discretionary bonuses, delivered another $1 billion in productivity, delivered flat operating margin on the core business for the year. That all being said, as we look ahead to operating margin for 2026, as we've referenced, and as I said in my earlier comments, FBM/ADG is creating an additional 30 basis points of dilution related to the RAP, 50 basis points on an annualized basis.
We are generating $1 billion incrementally in productivity for 2026, as we outlined at our AIC last year. We are seeing some modest incremental cost pressures that we haven't previously anticipated that are also embedded within that. I also mentioned that we're continuing to invest in a number of sales-driving initiatives that are tailored to, you know, value-conscious consumer, investing in fulfillment options, member benefit. All that's reflected in our updated expectations for 2026. The last thing I'll say, Peter, you know, I think this team's demonstrated a history of disciplined execution. We believe it's a hallmark differentiator for us and expect that to continue here in 2026 as we focus on landing that number.
Operator: Our next question is from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Christopher Horvers: So my first question is just thinking about demand. I know you said Fern and Gianna were 50 basis points benefit to the quarter. You know, that would still suggest like a 2 or 3 in January. If you look at the 2-year run rate, you know, that also improved in both December and January. For the quarter, and you were lapping, I think, a 70 basis point headwind relative to the hurricane recovery last year. You know, at a big picture level, do you think the demand in the category is just starting to elevate at the margin?
Could you maybe try to put together the narrative around the winter storms versus lapping polar vortexes versus lapping also hurricanes last year? You know, some detail there on sort of the net weather, and elevate to a high level, how you think about whether or not maybe the demand's just getting better at the margin?
Brandon Sink: Yes, sure, Chris, this is Brandon. A lot to unpack, as you mentioned here for Q4. I'll start with... you know, you referenced we had 100 basis points of headwind from Hurricane Selena and Milton last year. That has been in part offset by the benefits. I called out 50 basis points for Fern and Gianna here in Q4. We also referenced on the call last year an easier lap from the ice storms that played out over the course of January. As it's specific to the month of January, the 50 basis points on the quarter for Fern and Gianna was about 200 basis points on the month.
Sorta cutting through all of that noise, we're still very pleased with the underlying demand trends, and traction that we're seeing across all areas of the business, Pro, DIY, DIFM. As that translates, looking at Q1, we do expect the demand drivers that we've seen, the underlying consistency, to be again consistent with what we've seen in Q4. We are seeing some level of disruption here out of the gates with the aftereffects of Fern and Gianna to start the month of February and now Hernando up in the northeast, here to end the month. You know, we're managing spring over the course of the first half, looking at it as a first-half event.
Excited about everything we have locked and loaded. We have the biggest weeks ahead of us, and for the first half of the year, focused on, you know, delivering at the midpoint of the guide. Bill, you may want to reference just some underlying strength across categories that are separate from sort of the weather demand that we've seen.
William Boltz: Yes. Thanks, Brandon. I think, you know, when you look at January and you set the weather aside, you know, we saw strength across, you know, as was called out in our prepared remarks, these pro-related categories, millwork, lumber, building materials, electrical. Then we continued to see strength in paint, garden businesses outside of ice melt, hardware, soft surface flooring, which is carpet, kitchens and bath, rough plumbing. You know, those are all built around the foundation, and, you know, we're gonna leverage those as we go into the first half of the year and continue to drive those.
Christopher Horvers: And then my follow-up question is as you think about sort of the post-storm and post-tough winter recovery and lawn and landscape and even exterior of homes, we haven't had a winter like this in perhaps a decade. You also have a larger relative, you know, outdoor business relative to your peers. Is there an analog? How are you thinking about the potential pickup in sales in the first half of the year as it relates to the tough winter that we've had?
Marvin Ellison: Chris, this is Marvin. Look, we're optimistic, and we've tried to build all of that into our guidance. Candidly, we've also tried to take a conservative approach. I think, it's pretty obvious, and I'll state the obvious, that this is a pretty unique environment with unpredictable tariffs, high interest rates, and a consumer demand that is not as sustained as we would like it on the DIY side. We feel really good about our plan for spring. We feel great about our plan for 2026, and part of that is the fact that we have the best in-stock that we've had in my tenure here going into spring.
We have the best garden strategy that we've had in my tenure here going into spring. We have a lot of things working in our favor, not to mention that we have, you know, 30 million and growing members of our MyLowe's Rewards loyalty program that gives us a unique opportunity to message to those members. We are optimistic, but we're also cautiously optimistic just because there's lots of uncertainty out there. But we are very confident that whatever the macro environment provides, we will outperform the macro. We will take share. We took share in the fourth quarter. We took share in the third quarter. We'll take share in 2026.
Operator: Our next question is from the line of Kate McShane with Goldman Sachs.
Katharine McShane: We wanted to drill down on the comment that you'll be investing in sales, driving initiatives for the cost-cautious customer in 2026. What could that look like? Are you looking at price investment, promotion, some combination of both? How does that compare to how you managed through that in 2025?
Marvin Ellison: Kate, this is Marvin. Thank you for the question. Kate, there's really no major change coming to our strategy relative to price or promotion. We manage price on a portfolio basis in this really volatile tariff environment. We'll continue to do that. We will be very specific on what we call tier one promotional events. You know, think the launch of spring, you know, think Labor Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July. You'll see us leaning hard on some of those time frames, but other than that, we don't plan to be more promotional than any years past.
What I will tell you, and I hand it over to Bill, is that we're really excited about offering the customer value and making sure that the cost-conscious homeowner can look to Lowe's, both in-store and online, to find anything they want at a value and also find anything they want that could be more of a premium item. I'll let Bill talk about some of the things we have in store for spring in 2026.
William Boltz: Yes. Thanks, Marvin. You know, Kate, I think as we look at 2026, it's, you know, largely reflective of what we tried to do in Q4. That was, you know, meet the customer where they want to be met. Both online and in-store, offering these values for both a DIY and a pro customer, be out there, be relevant, with seasonally relevant products, which is very similar to what we've been doing and working on over the last few years. We're excited about what we've got planned in our lawn and garden business. We're excited about the new that we have, the innovation that we have across the store.
The merchant teams have done just a really nice job of bringing new, exclusive and innovative values that we can put in front of the consumer. We've got great brands, we've got great partners with our vendors. You know, we're starting from deep south to north, and we'll take it as the season comes and as spring starts to, you know, come alive. We want to be there and meet the customer where they're at. We'll just have great offers out there, throughout the spring season.
Joseph McFarland: Kate, I'll just add, in addition to that, you know, we mentioned the Pro Extended Aisle, and we continue to make the investments. This is a multi-year build-out, and so as we think about that, meaningful growth opportunity is still ahead of us. The investments that we have made, with our transform offerings in our home services business, and so, and continuing to make the investments in the Total Home strategy.
Katharine McShane: Then I just wondered if we could follow up with Brandon, how we should be thinking about the cadence of transaction versus ticket throughout 2026?
Brandon Sink: Yes. Sure, Kate. I think when we look at 26 and what's embedded with the guide, similar to the second half of 2025 that we saw, we do expect the growth to be more weighted towards ticket in the first half of 26, and that's primarily as we, as we wrap the tariff price increases that we've been implementing. As we move into the second half, we do expect to see transaction trends to improve. We're gonna start cycling that over the second half of the year and expect that to move more in line with neutral again as we, as we start looking at the second half of the year.
Operator: Our next question comes from the line of Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Unknown Analyst: This is Zach on for Simeon. Thanks for taking our question. What are the strategic priorities for the wholesale distribution business? Can you give us an update on the integration of FBM and ADG with the core Lowe's business?
Marvin Ellison: This is Marvin. I'll take the first part, and then I'll let Brandon jump in. First, what I would say is that we're really excited about the integration activities and the progress that we're making with both FBM and ADG. When you think about the future of acquisitions, we've already made a few tuck-in acquisitions for both FBM and ADG, and we feel as though we'll continue to do that to ensure that we're building out this interior solutions platform that we talked about. Our objective is to have the ability, when you combine Lowe's, ADG, and FBM, to provide the home builder with virtually everything they need for the interior space of the home.
You know, think doors, windows, ceiling systems, insulation, appliances, cabinets, countertops. That is the strategic vision that we're building out for both. As we think about, you know, future tuck-ins, they will be more than likely in that direction to ensure we're building out that portfolio of companies and products and services so we can serve that larger home builder. I'll let Brandon provide some additional context.
Brandon Sink: Yes, sure, Zach. As we put some financials to this, as we look ahead to 2026, I mentioned we're gonna have revenue, we're guiding revenue of about $8 billion combined for ADG and FBM. That does represent organically low single-digit positive growth, solidly accretive to adjusted EPS as we look at 2026. We like what we're seeing on the commercial side with FBM, as we manage through sort of the cyclicality of what we're seeing, some of the near-term pressure we're seeing on the home building side. As Marvin mentioned, we've activated our integration teams. We continue to work together with both FBM and ADG on our strategies and plans to realize synergies.
We're making really nice early progress, specifically, you know, work that we've done with vendors on product costs, looking at SG&A, logistics, back office, and then at the same time, really looking go forward at the cross-selling opportunities that exist across all three of these businesses. Really nice progress. Excited about what's ahead for 2026. We'll continue to manage this and continue to get after it.
Unknown Analyst: That's helpful. And then just as a quick follow-up, if we adjust for the mix impact of these acquisitions, can you speak to what you're expecting for the core on core EBIT margin in 2026, both at the low end and the high end of the range, and how that relates to the rule of thumb, if you will?
Brandon Sink: Yes, sure, Zach. I think I mentioned earlier, you know, stripping this out, really it's just a function of top line. Excluding the 30 basis points of step back, again, you're gonna see at the high end a reflection on our 2% comp, and that's if we see, you know, upside traction that we have with some of our sales-driving initiatives, you know, potential for tax refunds. Then the low end is essentially on a flat comp for the core business is gonna be at the low end. Really just a reflection.
We mentioned the investment and the sales-driving initiatives, and then where we fall within that range is just gonna be a function of how the top line plays out.
Operator: Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS.
Michael Lasser: The guidance you provided spans a bit broader of a range than Lowe's has historically provided. If 2026 turns out to be meaningfully better or worse than that range, what internal and external key performance indicators would have told you that first, and what is that KPI saying today?
Marvin Ellison: Michael, this is Marvin. I'll take the first part of that. I think the best way to think about your question is, whatever we get from a macro perspective in housing, we intend to outperform it. That is our internal expectation every year, and I think consistently, we've been able to do that. We're basically forecasting home improvement macro to be relatively flat, looking at 2026, and therefore, we set a guidance from 0%-2%, with the expectation that we'll outperform the macro and we'll take share against any competitor, small or large, and we think that we demonstrated that in the back half of this year.
Having said that, there are always indicators in merchandising categories, certain financial metrics we're looking at. Obviously, the one thing that we look at closely relative to the DIY are big-ticket, discretionary purchases. When we start to see a sustained number of discretionary big-ticket purchases from the DIY, that's gonna give us an indication that the consumer is getting healthier, and they're more confident in making those purchases. I'll let Brandon add any additional context.
Brandon Sink: Yes, Michael, I would just add a 2% spread has been pretty consistent the last couple of years as we've come out with the guide. In an uncertain environment like this, I'll just add a little bit more color to what Marvin said. This is really for us, I think where we fall is purely sort of indicative of, you know, overall home improvement in the macro and what plays out versus what doesn't. I think on the low end, probably an environment where we're seeing elasticity is a bit more pressured, deteriorating consumer sentiment, you know, the continued deferral of big-ticket spend, which we've been experiencing now for a number of years.
On the high end, I think potentially some uptick in big-ticket discretionary projects, potential benefit from the tax refunds, HELOC activity, which we think is an opportunity for us, and then, you know, obviously continued momentum in some of the core areas of the business, you know, primarily pro with some of the planned spend initiatives. That's just to give you an indication, sort of on the high end and the low end, as to how the macro could play out and how that translates to where we fall within the guide.
Michael Lasser: That's very helpful. And my follow-up question is a bit broader of a question, but Marvin, there's a lot of focus in the market and in the economy as of late, about what all of the technological innovation is gonna mean, both for companies as well as industries. The home improvement sector seems to be perceived to be a bit more insulated, at least as of today. How are you thinking about the broader impact of artificial intelligence on home improvement? How is Lowe's looking at the potential positive versus the drawbacks from deploying all this technology, both from a demand perspective as well as how it's evolving the cost structure over the next couple of years?
Marvin Ellison: No, well, Michael, I appreciate the question. I think for us, we set an internal framework that AI will help us improve how we sell, shop, and work. Basically, as we think about AI internally, we frame it around those three strategic areas of our business. As a result of that, we're very focused on employing AI to help our associates sell, to improve the shopping environment for our customers, both in-store and online, and creating productivity in the workspace, both in-store and at our store support center. Some examples of that are things like our Mylow Companion, which we are leveraging as a virtual assistant, not only for customers, but also as a companion tool for our associates.
We've seen roughly 1 million questions a month come through this virtual assistant and this companion tool. We built this on an OpenAI platform. It learns, and it gets better with every interaction. It helps our associates do the most difficult part of transition to a home improvement world, and that is product knowledge. One of the biggest challenges that Joe faces and our HR team faces whenever we bring on a new associate, is giving them the confidence they can be on the sales floor, engage a customer, and provide specific product knowledge. Not only does this platform and this assistant allow that to happen, it also now can do it in Spanish.
That helps to break the language gap that we may have in certain geographic areas. We've seen dramatic improvements in customer service in a 200 basis points range in our stores where associates are adopting this, and we're seeing our conversion rates online roughly double when customers engage with Mylow. That is just one tangible example of how we're taking AI and we're making it work, not in a philosophical, you know, not in a theoretical perspective, but in a very tangible perspective. As Joe mentioned in his prepared comments, we're leveraging this in Pro. We've now built a Pro Companion tool, which gives our Pro team the ability to understand exactly how to prepare for customer conversations.
When they engage with a large pre-planned Pro, they can be informed, they can have great advice and counsel, and they can provide good direction. I can give you 50 examples of how Bill is leveraging this from the merchant team, how we're freeing up his merchants from being task-driven and now being more strategically driven, working with suppliers on how we can drive revenue, how the tech team is using AI tools for development and code review, and they're seeing double-digit productivity gains and increasing speed to market.
We are embracing this as a net positive, and we're understanding that it's coming and we're on the cutting edge of working with it, and we're excited about some of the work we're doing in agentic commerce with some of the leading tech platforms out there as well. It's something, as a large company, that we understand is critically important to our current state and our future, and we're embracing it.
Operator: The next question is from the line of Jonathan Matuszewski with Jefferies.
Jonathan Matuszewski: Marvin, if you adjust for the weather and put the storms aside, are there commonalities in markets where you're seeing comp sales underperforming and where they're outperforming? Basically, can you draw any conclusions from home prices or white-collar employment or other factors on a market-by-market basis?
Marvin Ellison: Jonathan, thank you for the question. I can say that there are really no material differences that we're seeing in geographies if you strip out weather. Now, we understand that there are housing dynamics across the country, we've seen no material difference in our overall financial performance in these geographies thus far.
Jonathan Matuszewski: And then a follow-up question, you know, you referenced Lowe's Media Network. Was hoping you could share an update there in terms of how that's contributing from a P&L standpoint, and how you see any tailwinds to the gross margin guide in 2026, Brandon, as that continues to grow?
Marvin Ellison: Well, I can tell you we're really excited about the media network. It's something that we've been investing in for a while. We've now hired a new leader. We've improved our technology platform, and what I'll do is I'll let both Bill and Brandon talk about how we're leveraging it from our supplier partnerships on Bill's side, then I'll let Brandon provide any financial perspective.
William Boltz: Yes. Marvin, I'll jump in here. Just, you know, a couple of things. We're leveraging insights from our customers from both our loyalty platforms, both the Pro and the DIY, you know, which has given us a key differentiator for our Media Network. We're expanding channels, looking at creator networks, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, across our sports marketing, connected TV, and online video. We're also looking at how we provide visibility and measurable results to our suppliers, leveraging, you know, the value creation that we can drive here. 'Cause we think, you know, with our Media Network, we open up a number of different avenues for these guys to be able to tap into.
So, we're excited about kind of where we're going and the early results of it, and we're in the early innings, but we're off and running.
Brandon Sink: And Jonathan, this is Brandon. Last thing I'll say, just the benefits of Lowe's Media Network, the advertising revenue, the growth, is reflected in our expectation of $1 billion of productivity into 2026. That's roughly split evenly into gross margin, which would include the benefits from the Lowe's Media Network, and then the other half in expense. Again, factored in the growth, it's scaling in line with our expectations and gonna be a big part of what we expect to deliver for 2026.
Operator: The next question is from the line of Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Brian Nagel: So First question I have, I guess it's from a macro standpoint. You know, a lot of thought lately, including on today's call, about the ongoing stagnation in the U.S. housing market and, you know, the headwind of higher rates. The question I want to ask, you know, we're starting to maybe see rates move lower, you know, in the data. As you're watching your data, are you seeing? You know, again, recognizing it's early, are you seeing some type of, you know, benefit, you know, as rates have started to move lower?
If not, are you starting to see I guess the other question, would you be seeing some type of break, and what would that normally be, that relationship between rates and your business?
Marvin Ellison: Brian, this is Marvin. I'll take the first part of that. Look, I would, you know, say that we are obviously watching this really close, but you said it's just a little too early to have any definitive point of view that there's a correlation between rates going down of late and any type of demand changes in the marketplace. Look, we think intuitively that when you get rates down on a sustainable basis below 6%, we think that's gonna be as much of a psychological unlock as anything else. It's just too early for me to sit here today and give you a definitive financial point of view on it. I'll let Brandon provide some thoughts.
Brandon Sink: Yes. Brian, I'll just add, you know, we've looked at the Fed cut 175 basis points in the last 18 months. There's a consensus of a couple of more cuts, 50 basis points, this coming year in 2026. The near term impact that is easing the burden for consumers in areas like, you know, credit cards, auto loans, HELOCs. Watching the long end of the curve, more particularly, which is, as you know, pegged to the 10-year, which has been hovering somewhere around 4% to 4.5%. We do look at sub 6% rates as potentially stimulating demand. We saw that this week, for the first time, dip just below 6%.
Translating all of that into the guide, there is a delay, as Marvin referenced. We don't know exactly when that's gonna start to take shape and how that's gonna impact consumer spending. Again, for us, that's what's resulted in us having a little bit wider range, just given the opportunity and some of the uncertainty that continues to be out there.
Brian Nagel: That's helpful. I appreciate it. And then my follow-up question, I guess, also bigger picture, but just with respect to tariffs, you know, you and your sector have done a very good job of managing the tariffs we've seen. We've gotten, I guess we'd say, new news and maybe some from certain further shifts in tariff rates. Again, recognizing this is also early, but, you know, any thoughts on, you know, what we're seeing now and, you know, what the adjustments that could spur within your business?
Marvin Ellison: So Brian, I'll state the obvious, the tariff policy is fluid. We're currently reviewing all the new rules like everyone else. What I will tell you is that we remain confident in our full year guide regarding the top and bottom line. In the meantime, we're just gonna continue to execute our global sourcing playbook, and we're gonna just be in tune to everything that is changing and adjusting. Again, it's just such a fluid situation. It's just too early, again, to have a really specific point of view other than we have a very, very effective playbook. We're gonna manage that playbook, and we're gonna be very, very alert to any other changes that happen.
Brian Nagel: I appreciate it. Thanks, Marvin.
Marvin Ellison: So everyone that's our final question, and I'd like to close with a couple of comments. First, I'd like to take a moment to recognize Kate Pearlman, our VP of Investor Relations and Treasurer, after a distinguished tenure with Lowe's, Kate has decided it's the right time to embark on a new chapter of her Professional journey. While we are sad to see her go, she leaves us on the highest note having built a world-class IR and treasury function. So we want you to join us in thanking Kate for her years of dedication to Lowe's, wishing her nothing but grace favor and blessings in our future endeavors.
And we now look forward to speaking with you again on our May 20 earnings call. So Rob, that's all we have.
Operator: Thank you. This will conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for joining us for the Lowe's fourth quarter 2025 earnings call. Thank you.
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. Parts of this article were created using Large Language Models (LLMs) based on The Motley Fool's insights and investing approach. It has been reviewed by our AI quality control systems. Since LLMs cannot (currently) own stocks, it has no positions in any of the stocks mentioned. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not


================================================================================
TICKER: INTU | DATE: 2024-07-23
================================================================================
Intuit (INTU 0.89%)Q4 2024 Earnings CallAug 22, 2024, 4:30 p.m. ET
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Bo, and I will be your conference operator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Intuit's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2024 conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. [Operator instructions] With that, I will now turn the call over to Ms. Kim Watkins, Intuit's vice president of investor relations. Please go ahead, Ms.
Kim A. Watkins -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Thanks, Bo. Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuit's fourth quarter fiscal 2024 conference call. I'm here with Intuit's CEO, Sasan Goodarzi; and our CFO, Sandeep Aujla. Before we start, I'd like to remind everyone that our remarks will include forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could cause Intuit's results to differ materially from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued earlier this afternoon, our Form 10-K for fiscal 2023, and our other SEC filings. All of those documents are available on the Investor Relations page of Intuit's website at intuit.com. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Some of the numbers in today's remarks are presented on a non-GAAP basis. We've reconciled the comparable GAAP and non-GAAP numbers in today's press release. Unless otherwise noted, all growth rates refer to the current period versus the comparable prior year period, and the business metrics and associated growth rates refer to worldwide business metrics. A copy of our prepared remarks and supplemental financial information will be available on our website after this call ends.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Sasan. 
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Great. Thank you, Kim, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. We delivered very strong results for the fourth quarter and full year and made meaningful progress with our AI-driven expert platform strategy and Big Bets that position the company for durable growth in the future. Our full-year revenue grew 13%, and we delivered strong operating margin expansion, demonstrating the strength and momentum of our investments and innovation.
As we exit the year, we're confident in delivering another year of double-digit revenue growth and margin expansion in fiscal year 2025. Intuit is a global AI-driven expert platform that is powering prosperity for consumers, small and mid-market businesses. Our strategy in five Big Bets positioned Intuit as a mission-critical platform that delivers end-to-end solutions driving sustained growth. We made an early bet on AI.
We have a significant advantage with the scale of our data, investments in AI capabilities such as knowledge engineering, machine learning and GenAI, and our large network of AI-powered virtual experts. This is enabling us to disrupt the categories in which we operate. We are transforming how we serve our customers by delivering done-for-you experiences where we do the hard work for them, connecting them with AI-powered human expertise to fuel their success. With the introduction of GenAI, we're now delivering reimagined customer experiences and bolstering businesses' growth potential while driving efficiencies in how work gets done within Intuit.
This has enabled us to build a large, AI-driven expert platform to fuel the success of consumers, small and mid-market businesses. The progress we've made has bolstered our confidence, leading us to accelerate investments in five key areas within our Big Bets to deliver greater impact in the future. I'll spend a moment unpacking the progress we've made and our investment plans for the future. First, within Big Bet 1, we're delivering done-for-you experiences with Intuit Assist.
In fiscal year 2024, we made strong progress making Intuit Assist, our GenAI-powered financial assistance available to millions of consumers and approximately 1 million small and mid-market businesses. We're accelerating our investments to roll out Intuit Assist at scale in the coming year. Second, within Big Bet 2, we are accelerating platform and go-to-market investments for TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live, embedding AI-powered experts across our business offerings. In fiscal year 2024, TurboTax Live revenue grew 17% and full-service customers doubled while those customers who needed TurboTax tripled.
QuickBooks Live customers more than tripled. We expect our accelerated investment in these areas to deepen our penetration in very manual, high-priced, and disaggregated assisted categories. By digitizing how services are delivered, an integral part of our done-for-you platform experiences, we will become the AI-powered financial assistant for consumers, small and mid-market businesses. Next, within Big Bet 4, our money solutions.
We're making additional investments to accelerate digitizing the experience end-to-end for consumers, small and mid-market businesses from estimate to invoicing to getting paid and paying bills. In fiscal year 2024, the total online payment volume we facilitated on our platform grew 20%. We also helped small businesses access $2.4 billion in financing through QuickBooks Capital, up 28% and we made significant progress digitizing B2B payments with our Bill Pay offering for which monthly payment volume processed quadrupled over the last six months. In fiscal year 2025, we expect these accelerated investments to deliver best-in-class, seamless payments, capital, banking, bill pay, and invoicing solutions.
Next, within Big Bet 5, we're doubling down our mid-market with additional investments in the platform and go-to-market motions. In fiscal year 2024, QBO Advanced customers grew 28%. In fiscal year 2025, we're accelerating investments to better serve customers who have more complex needs such as more sophisticated accounting and reporting requirements, business intelligence, money solutions, human capital management, professional services, and customer acquisition solutions with Mailchimp, all assisted by AI-powered human experts. And finally, accelerating international growth with Mailchimp and QuickBooks.
We've translated the Mailchimp offering into five different languages for markets where we see a large TAM. Looking ahead, we're bringing QuickBooks and Mailchimp together to create a single growth platform, differentiated in the markets where we have product market fit, including in Canada, U.K., and Australia. In other geographies, we're leading with Mailchimp's strong international footprint to help small businesses get customers as we continue to localize the offering. Wrapping up with the progress and momentum we are delivering and the accelerated investment areas I have shared, we are in a great position to win as an end-to-end platform with experiences that fuel the success of customers.
Intuit is the AI-driven expert platform that is powering prosperity for consumers, small and mid-market businesses. With that, now let me turn it over to Sandeep.
Sandeep Aujla -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Sasan. We delivered very strong results in fiscal 2024 across the company, including total revenue growth of 13%, GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin expansion of 40 and 100 basis points, respectively, and GAAP and non-GAAP EPS growth of 24% and 18%, respectively. Our fourth quarter results include revenue of $3.2 billion, up 17%, GAAP operating loss of $151 million versus GAAP operating income of $17 million last year reflecting a restructuring charge of $223 million recognized in the quarter related to the organizational changes we announced in July. Non-GAAP operating income of $730 million versus $627 million last year, up 16%.
GAAP diluted loss per share of $0.07 versus diluted earnings per share of $0.32 a year ago, also reflecting the restructuring charge and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.99 versus $1.65 last year, up 21%. Turning to the business segments. In the Small Business and Self-Employed Group, revenue grew 20% during the quarter and 19% for the full year. This momentum demonstrates the power of a small and mid-market business platform and the mission-critical nature of our offerings as customers look to grow their business and improve cash flow in any economic environment.
Online ecosystem revenue grew 18% during the quarter and 20% for the full year, driven by our progress serving customers with more complex needs and adoption of our ecosystem of services. As a result, online ecosystem ARPC grew 11% in fiscal 2024. With the goal of being the source of truth for small businesses, our strategic focus within the Small Business and Self-employed Group is threefold. Grow the core, connect the ecosystem, and expand globally.
First, we continue to focus on growing the core. QuickBooks Online accounting revenue grew 17% in Q4 and 19% in fiscal 2024. Growth for the quarter and year was driven by customer growth, higher effective prices, and mix shift. We delivered growth in our declared strategic areas this year with our emphasis on serving customers with more complex needs.
This focus drove U.S. QBO customers, excluding self-employed, up 11%. QBO advanced customers up 28%, while QBO U.S. Self-employed customers declined 14%, resulting in total online paying customers up 6%.
Second, we continue to focus on connecting the ecosystem. Online services revenue grew 19% in Q4, driven by payments, payroll, capital, and Mailchimp. For the full fiscal year 2024, online services revenue grew 21%, driven by payroll, payments, Mailchimp, and Capital. Within payments, revenue growth in the quarter reflects higher effective prices, ongoing customer growth as more customers adopt our payments offerings to manage their cash flow, and an increase in total payment volume per customer.
Total online payment volume growth in Q4 was 19%, relatively consistent with the range we've seen over the last several quarters. Within the payroll, revenue growth in the quarter reflects an increase in customers adopting our payroll solutions, higher effective prices, and a mix shift toward higher-end offerings. Mailchimp revenue growth was driven by higher effective prices and paid customer growth. The revenue growth continues to be impacted by the lapping of a larger benefit from price and lineup changes that we made last year in Q2 and Q3.
Third, we continue to make progress expanding globally by executing our refreshed international strategy, which includes leading with both QuickBooks Online and Mailchimp in our established markets and leading with Mailchimp in all other markets as we continue to execute on our localized product and lineup. On a constant-currency basis, total international online ecosystem revenue grew 11% in Q4 and 13% in fiscal 2024. Turning to Desktop. We successfully concluded the 3-year transition to a subscription model, which contributed to 25% Desktop Ecosystem revenue growth in Q4 and 16% revenue growth in fiscal 2024.
QuickBooks Desktop Enterprise revenue grew in the low 30s in Q4 and in the high teens for fiscal 2024. Our Q4 Desktop Ecosystem revenue growth also reflects the offering changes we made in early fiscal 2024 to complete the transition to a recurring subscription model. These changes resulted in approximately $60 million of desktop revenue recognized in Q4 and approximately $50 million recognized in the first three quarters of fiscal 2024, all of which would have otherwise been recognized in Q1 of fiscal 2025. We also expect approximately $50 million of desktop revenue that would have otherwise been recognized in Q1 in fiscal 2025 to shift to later quarters in fiscal 2025.
In total, these changes lower Q1 fiscal 2025 revenue by approximately $160 million and are largely related to a more frequent product update beginning in Q4 of fiscal 2024 to align the customer delivery experience to our subscription model. Accordingly, we expect Q1 Desktop Ecosystem revenue to decline approximately 20% for Q1. But for Desktop Ecosystem, revenue could return to growth in Q2. Overall, we expect Desktop Ecosystem revenue to grow in the low single digits in fiscal 2025.
Turning to Credit Karma. Credit Karma revenue growth improved each quarter during fiscal 2024 from a 5% decline in Q1 to a 14% growth in Q4. On a product basis in Q4, auto insurance accounted for six points of growth, personal loans accounted for five points, credit cards accounted for two points and Credit Karma money accounted for one point. Full-year revenue was $1.7 billion, up 5%.
We are pleased with the momentum driven by our relentless focus on what matters most to our members and partners. We made strong progress this year redesigning the Credit Karma app to enable members to see much more of their financial life and find the product right for them. We also introduced Intuit Assist to deliver personalized financial insights using data and AI, increased monetization in the underpenetrated point segment, and made it easier than ever for consumers to benefit from the Credit Karma and TurboTax product integration. I am proud of the progress the team made innovating on behalf of our members and partners.
Switching to Consumer and ProTax Group. Consumer Group revenue of $4.4 billion grew 7% in fiscal 2024 as we continue to revolutionize how taxes get done for consumers and small businesses. TurboTax Live revenue grew 17% and Customers grew 11%. Full-service customers doubled, while those new to TurboTax tripled.
We are pleased with the momentum we saw with TurboTax Live again this season. Turning to the ProTax Group. Revenue was $599 million in fiscal 2024, up 7%. In summary, I'm pleased with our continued momentum this fiscal year and our opportunities ahead.
Shifting to our balance sheet and capital allocation. Our financial principles guide our decisions that remain our long-term commitment and are unchanged. We finished the quarter with $4.1 billion in cash and investments and $6 billion in debt on our balance sheet. We repurchased $255 million of stock during the fourth quarter and $2 billion during fiscal 2024.
Depending on market conditions and other factors, our aim is to be in the market each quarter. The board approved a quarterly dividend of $1.04 per share payable on October 18, 2024. This represents a 16% increase versus last year. Moving on to guidance.
Our fiscal 2025 guidance includes total company revenue of $18.160 billion to $18.347 billion, growth of 12% to 13%. Our guidance includes revenue growth of 16% to 17% for the Small Business and Self-Employed Group, including online ecosystem revenue growth of approximately 20%, and Desktop Ecosystem revenue growth in the low single digits. Our guidance also includes revenue growth of 7% to 8% for the Consumer Group and 5% to 8% for Credit Karma. GAAP diluted earnings per share of $12.34 to $12.54, growth of 18% to 20%, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $19.16 to $19.36, growth of 13% to 14%.
We expect a GAAP tax rate of approximately 23% in fiscal 2025. GAAP guidance reflects an expected $24 million restructuring charge related to the reorganization we announced in July. Our guidance for first quarter of fiscal 2025 includes total company revenue growth of 5% to 6%, including Small Business and Self-Employed Group revenue growth of 6% to 7%, reflecting the revenue shift in Q1 resulting from the desktop offering changes that I noted earlier. We expect Desktop Ecosystem revenue to decline approximately 20% in Q1 and the online ecosystem, which is our growth catalyst to accelerate to approximately 19% growth in Q1.
For Credit Karma, we expect revenue to grow in Q1 and for our Consumer Group and ProTax revenue to decline in Q1 as we are lapping the period a year ago that included the extended California tax filing deadline. GAAP earnings per share of $0.61 to $0.66 and non-GAAP earnings per share of $2.33 to $2.38. The GAAP guidance reflects an expected $19 million restructuring charge that we expect to incur in Q1 related to the reorganization we announced in July. You can find our full fiscal 2025 and Q1 guidance details in our press release and on our fact sheet.
I will now shift to our long-term growth expectations for each of our business segments. First, Small Business. With the momentum we see in online ecosystem growth, we are reiterating our long-term revenue growth expectations for the Small Business and Self-Employed Group of 15% to 20%. As this -- as part of this, we continue to expect online paying ARPC growth of 10% to 20%, and we now expect online paying customer growth of 5% to 10%.
This reflects our shift in emphasis toward ARPC as we scale mid-market, drive growth in services, and reship how we go to market as one business platform to significantly increase adoption of all our offerings. While there are relatively fewer mid-market customers, the ARPC of mid-market QuickBooks Online customers is nearly three times higher than other QuickBooks online customers. Turning to Credit Karma. We are excited about the opportunity ahead as we execute our strategy to more deeply penetrate our core verticals, scale in growth verticals, and execute our consumer ecosystem strategy.
With the learnings from operating in the current business cycle, we are updating our long-term revenue growth expectations to 10% to 15%, reflecting the current size and scale of the business and as we focus on creating seamless end-to-end experiences with TurboTax that benefit consumers year-round. Finally, the Consumer Group. Based on the momentum we saw this season and the significant runway we have ahead to penetrate our TAM, we expect assisted penetration to be the key driver of future growth. TurboTax Live revenue accounted for approximately 30% of Consumer Group revenue in fiscal 2024, and we expect it to become the majority of Consumer Group revenue in the coming years.
With that context, while we are scaling assisted, we are adjusting the Consumer Group long-term revenue growth to 6% to 10% in this interim period with TurboTax Live revenue expected to grow 15% to 20%. One final note, before I wrap up. Starting in Q1, we will be changing the name of our Small Business and Self-Employed Group to Global Business Solutions Group. This new name better aligned with the global reach of the Mailchimp and QuickBooks platform and our focus on serving both small and mid-market businesses and our vision to become the end-to-end platform that customers use to grow and run their businesses.
With that, I'll turn it back over to Sasan.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Great. Thank you, Sandeep. We are confident in our long-term growth strategy, including double-digit revenue growth and operating income growing faster than revenue. We have the strategy to win given the green shoots we're observing and with less than 5% penetration of our $300 billion in TAM, we have a massive runway ahead.
We look forward to seeing all of you at our Investor Day next month, where we'll unpack all of this and more. Let's now open it up to your questions.
Thank you, Mr. Goodarzi. [Operator instructions] Also, please limit yourself to one question. We'd like to get to as many people as we can.
We'll go first this afternoon to Siti Panigrahi at Mizuho.
Great. Thank you. If one question, then Sasan, I will focus on Small Business segment, 19% growth is pretty good in this environment, where we are hearing about SMB weakness. But I want to focus on your growth in '25 -- fiscal '25 and beyond.
Now, it looks like your focus is now driving growth through targeting mid-market. You talked about that and renamed that, so help us understand how big is that opportunity to expand into mid-market. And why is this the right time for Intuit to increase focus on mid-market? And is it mostly targeting this, your QuickBooks customer base? Or are you planning to gain share from other vendors?
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yes. Siti, thank you for your question. You know, first of all, I want to start with our focus will continue to be Small Businesses that are formed and because we want to fundamentally continue to grow with them. With that as context, we've just simply doubled down on our focus on mid-market.
And as you know, it's not new. This has been five years in the making. It's one of the five Bets that we declared more than five years ago. But I would just say, five years later, Siti, we are just building an incredible amount of momentum.
With that as context, let me just now answer your question. One, the way to think about it is we now have a business suite. And our business suite provides all the capabilities to -- for our business to be able to grow their customers, manage their customers, be able to manage their cash flow, get their accounting done, all in one place. And with our really AI-powered innovation and AI-powered experts, we really have tilted the professional grade help and services to all of our businesses.
And we are now at a place where we are really accelerating on two fronts. One, we are going to go to market as one platform versus pieces and parts to really accelerate services penetration because the one thing we continue to hear from businesses is that they want to do everything in one place and now we have the business suite for them to do everything in one place. Secondarily is our acceleration in mid-market. We're actually excited to announce at Investor Day a platform that will take us even further upmarket and that really positions us to not only grow with our customers but to really acquire new customers.
I would just remind us that the majority of mid-market customers are nonconsumption. And they pay a lot of money to use multiple different apps, discrete apps that don't talk to each other. Excel spreadsheets, Google Sheets, shoeboxes, and paying for multiple different bookkeepers, marketing agents, and ultimately, accountants. And now, we have packaged all of that as one enterprise suite to be able to pursue and accelerate pursuing mid-market customers.
And our ultimate goal is to go far beyond 10 to 100 employees. And so, I think this is five years in the making. And to round out the answer to your question, this is both focusing on the smaller customers, but we're really doubling down on the larger customers and really being able to penetrate services. And that's really what gives us confidence in the 20% online ecosystem revenue growth at a far bigger scale that you heard from Sandeep, along with our acceleration in Q1.
Thank you, and I look forward to hearing more at the Investor Day.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you. We go next now to Alex Zukin at Wolfe Research.
Hey, guys, thanks for taking the question. I wanted to ask about Consumer, the guide for the coming year, the updated midterm guide. If you can just walk through a little bit of the puts and takes where -- why was that the right place to start the annual guide, what could drive upside surprise as the tax season progresses? And maybe, Sasan, just your view on kind of the macroeconomic backdrop that that Consumer guide is set against.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. Absolutely, Alex. Thank you for your question. Let me start with the last part of your question, which is around the macro environment.
We have not assumed anything other than the current environment. We're not assuming any tailwinds coming from the macro environment. So, that's really been one of the elements that's informed our guidance. It's really about our current trends that we're seeing our current momentum that we're seeing and really all focused on our own execution.
So, that's really the first part of your question. I would say the second part is just as a refresher, the total tax market is about $35 billion in TAM, $5 billion of that is do-it-yourself and about $30 billion is both -- is all assisted, but consumer and on the business side. We've got great momentum. As you know, TurboTax Live grew 17% this past year, but the number of full-service customers that we got double, new to the franchise tripled.
And so, we have a lot of momentum as we look ahead, and that's why we have a lot of confidence in really providing an expectation that we expect TurboTax Live to grow between 15% to 20%. And that really leads to -- we wanted to just adjust our long-term expectations to be really prudent because, until TurboTax Live, which today is 30% of our franchise, growing high double digits, until that becomes a larger part of our franchise, we wanted to be prudent with our long-term expectation. I will just end with saying that DIY is actually very important, and I would parse it into two. One, we're actually growing quite rapidly, and I would say, high single digits with complex customers with higher income, and we're actually accelerating taking share.
And based on our learnings this year and based on our trade-offs that we made this year and our focus this year, we're going to be quite assertive in continuing to pursue lower-income customers this year because we have a lot of green shoots from this past year with our experiments of how to deliver benefits and monetize beyond tax with our Credit Karma platform. And so, we're going to be leaning into that. And I'll just end with the final aspect of the question that you asked, really are upside to our guide, which is, I think, a question you asked around TurboTax comes from really two dimensions: one, accelerating in assisted tax beyond the 15% to 20%; and two, actually accelerating where we've seen a lot of green shoots, which is the more complex, higher income customers that are DIY. We have positioned ourselves for the innovation and the lineup that's required to win on both fronts in the coming years.
So, that's where our confidence comes from.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you. We go next now to Brad Zelnick with Deutsche Bank.
Great. Thanks so much for taking the question. Sasan, I wanted to ask about the restructuring, which I know you take very seriously. We appreciate it wasn't motivated by cost savings, but rather to better position the company ahead.
How are you thinking about reinvesting any savings as it takes time to staff back up to prior levels? Are there specific initiatives that dollars get allocated to? Any additional color would be great. Thanks.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. Sure, Brad. First of all, I just want to start with acknowledging we are a culture about talent and people and compassion and care. And this is a very, very tough decision.
And we took great care of our teams internally, both those that are staying and getting them excited about why we're doing this and what's in the future and they remain extremely energized. But secondarily, taking great care of those that were impacted. And I just wanted to start there because these things are hard for us. We take it very seriously.
We also believe that it's critically important to position the company for the future. And as we communicated, which is really the plan that we're executing against and a lot of what my upfront comments were, we are really taking all of the dollars and reinvesting it in five areas, which I articulated earlier in my prepared remarks. And really, our intent is to put all of those dollars back in the five areas that we've seen a lot of green shoots in this past several years. They accelerated toward really the latter part of last fiscal year, which is hence the decision to really double down in those five areas.
So, our intent is to allocate all of those dollars to those five areas. And of course, it's spread across marketing, customer success, and additional headcount, engineering headcount in the areas that I mentioned. And we expect -- by the way, there's no expectation of any of these paying off in the coming year. None of our guidance that we provided resides on the added headcount back in.
This is really positioning us for the next two, three years plus. That's an important note for all of you to know because there's really no risk to our execution plan as we think about the coming year, but really this is about positioning us in the future. I'll just end with the following: we have a lot of confidence with the margin expansion that Sandeep articulated, and not only from the platform leverage that we're getting but from all of our AI investments internally to drive a lot of efficiency and productivity.
Sandeep Aujla -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Brad, the only thing I would add is we didn't have a standing start as we made that announcement. We were already contemplating, as you probably saw from our open job listings, those had increased over the last quarter. We started building out our mid-market go-to-market function as well as scaling our marketing activities, particularly as we go after the assisted tax category, which has a different marketing timing than the DIY category.
Thanks, Sandeep. Look forward to seeing you guys at Investor Day.
Sandeep Aujla -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Thank you. We do this. We look forward to it as well.
Thank you. We'll go next now to Brent Thill at Jefferies.
Thanks. Sasan, when you think about the Mailchimp reacceleration, what do you need to put in place to enable that to get to the level you'd like to see?
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. There are really three areas that we've been executing that are worth calling out that we're excited about. One is the integration with the QuickBooks platform. As I mentioned earlier, one of the biggest areas why we're able to accelerate our customer growth with U.S.
QBO, customer growth of 11%, the QBO advanced to 28% is really creating a suite where our platform is all in one place. So, that's one area that we are aggressively focused on data and tech integration. And of course, workflow integration, and we're making great progress on that front. That's number one.
Number two is mid-market. That is an area where it was critical when we declared the acquisition of Mailchimp, we're building momentum. Both, by the way, what we're doing to integrate the offering, but also our go-to-market capabilities. As we announced, I think, last quarter, Greg Johnson is now back with Intuit.
He runs all of our go-to-market for all of Small Business, and we've brought together our sales and marketing, and customer success across Mailchimp and QuickBooks to be able to be better positioned for mid-market. And then last is international. Those are the three areas that we're very focused on. And when we look at our KPIs, we're making solid progress against those three areas, and that's one of the reasons why it leaves us excited about the coming year and the future.
Thank you. We go next now to Keith Weiss at Morgan Stanley.
Excellent. Thank you, guys, for taking the questions, and congratulations on a really solid quarter. I wanted to ask about the acceleration in QBO into Q1. We've seen two quarters of deceleration in both QuickBooks online subscriptions and the online services.
The confidence in the acceleration, is that based upon like price increases? Or is there something you're seeing in units or other parts of the business that are giving you guys confidence in guiding toward an acceleration for Q1? And then as a follow-up, talked a lot about where the reinvestment of the dollars or the heads from the headcount reduction came from. Can you give us a little bit of visibility of where those heads came out of? Like what are the parts of the business that you guys are paring back investment in?
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. Great. Thank you for your question, Keith. I'll start with your first question.
Really, our acceleration comes from three areas. One, acceleration in services. And this is services across payments, across payroll, across our live platform, and what we expect in Mailchimp. So, that's one key area.
The second key area is mid-market, where, as we shared earlier, we've seen very good traction with QBO events, and we really continue to build out our go-to-market efforts on our platform capabilities. And that's informing by the way, what we're seeing in Q1, but also the fact that we shared earlier that we expect our online ecosystem revenue to be 20%, which is what it was this past year. And the third is price. Those three have played a big role in our acceleration.
And the thing I would just call out on price, everything that we really learn and hear from our customers is because we have a business suite in one place, they're actually saving time they need less labor. They're able to drive customer growth based on our capabilities and better manage their cash flow because we're digitizing their cash flow. And that plays a very big role in terms of just the pricing power that we have, especially in our higher-end SKUs. But those are the three things that give us confidence into Q1 and beyond.
And as you know, the majority of this business is subscription-based. So, it's very predictable. In terms of the -- your second question around, well, where did the heads come from in terms of the restructuring, there was really several key areas. I would say the largest area as we looked across the company and we looked at talent that we felt there was an opportunity for better performance.
This was about 8% of our talent. These are, by the way, very talented folks that will lend great opportunities elsewhere. But it was across the company. It was not from any particular area, which, by the way, why there's really no execution risk from the actions that we took because this wasn't from one area.
This was from across the company and talent that was we believe we have an opportunity to upgrade talent. So, that was really one area. The second is, we really consolidated some of our technology talent across multiple sites, closing down Boise and Edmonton and consolidating technology talent in our key areas, Tel Aviv, Bangalore, Atlanta, and Toronto. But those, I would say, were the main drivers of where the restructuring came from.
And then, of course, we're allocating all of it to the five areas that I mentioned earlier.
Sandeep Aujla -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
The only thing I would add, Keith, to Sasan's first part of that question. If you recall in my prepared remarks, I talked about QBO U.S. growing 11%, advance growing 28%. These larger customers tend to adopt and use services at a higher rate than the self-employed that decline, so that's an important attribute to keep in mind.
And secondly, on pricing, we look at pricing very carefully, our price volume mix, and well over half of our growth comes from volume and mix. And at the company level, the contributions for price are relatively consistent year over year while they are slightly higher in the Small Business group. So, that's the second component to keep in mind as we look at the trajectory heading into Q1.
Thank you. Helpful. Thank you, guys.
Thank you. We'll go next now to Kash Rangan at Goldman Sachs.
Yeah. Thank you very much, team, here. A nice finish to the fiscal year and quite positive on the guidance too. One, I couldn't help but notice that your Small Business, the Self-Employed Group is now running at the rate of $10 billion, I think, as of this most recent quarter, 10-ish.
Very few companies in software -- in the enterprise software market hit the $10 billion. And congrats, you are there, you've done it with finance accounting for the most part, and you've got payments and payroll. So, this puts you on track with ServiceNow, I believe also tendering at a run rate business growing a little bit faster and you're moving upmarket, your SKU mix is decidedly more advanced and less so of lower-value units. So, this has been, at least from my perspective, more successful, your tendering dollars and revenue, one of the largest enterprise software companies in the world.
So, haven't come this far, where else could you go with this business? And I'm glad I'm not asking you a tax question. Thank you so much.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you for the question, Kash. And also, by the way, the setup, as you saw in our guide, we're guiding our Global Business Solutions Group to be north of $11 billion, growing 16% to 17% in the coming year, and particularly with online growing at 20%. And I would just tell you all of that has been done without really much, I would say, massive contribution from mid-market. So, the best is yet to come because we are going to continue and if you look at where we are today versus three years ago, we truly have a business suite where we have all of the key capabilities for a business to be able to grow and run their business.
And we've been investing in the last five years to be positioned to go after mid-market. And our ultimate goal is to have all of the big brand names be on our mid-market platform, and we will announce something I think you'll find exciting at our Investor Day that really positions us to be able to serve these larger customers. And that's really when you look at the future -- when we look at the future, where we get really excited is that we're actually at where we are with an incredible franchise without really having a significant contribution from mid-market. And that's what excites us about the future because we want to continue to serve smaller businesses.
but we now have a real opportunity to win in mid-market. And I would remind us of the following. It's probably the most important point that I'll make. Mid-market, when it comes to financial management platforms, is actually not a crowded space.
And so, we have an incredible right to win. And this is really precisely what we hear from accountants and from mid-market businesses. We're really excited about the next chapter of taking our business group from $10 billion today to much larger as we look into the next three to five years.
Thank you. And then onto 20. Thank you.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yes, indeed. See you at Investor Day.
Thank you. We'll go next now to Kirk Materne at Evercore ISI.
Yes. Thanks. I'll echo my congrats on the quarter and upbeat guidance in the next year. I guess, Sasan, my question comes around sort of the Global Business Solutions Group.
How are you thinking about Intuit Assist impact on that in the coming year? Where is that sort of in the integration process? I'd just be curious about how you see that empowering your customers, maybe growing, helping in areas like mid-market, or attach rates on some of your other products in that area. So, I wanted to just answer that, discuss Intuit Assist on the Small Business side. Thanks.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah, Kirk, thank you for the question. First of all, let me just start with we haven't accounted for or assumed anything in our guidance or around Intuit Assist for the coming year. So, I just wanted to start there. Now, let me get to your question.
We actually have an incredible amount of momentum with Intuit Assist, you're going to see it at Investor Day. But let me start with the foundation of what I shared in the prepared remarks, which was we have about 1 million businesses that are engaging with Intuit Assist. And it is going to play a significant role in the future because that is actually the foundation of what we bet the company on six years ago, which was really around data and AI. But really, the bet was about delivering experiences where we do the work for our customers.
And so, a number of areas that our customers are using today as part of the million that I mentioned is along the lines of marketing campaigns with proposed revenue that our customers could garner that we could then execute on the behalf of our customers. Things like taking, by the way, pictures of an estimate that you may have written on the go then you can take a picture of them, we will create a digitized estimate, invoice your payment schedule that you want, all within the platform. Send it to your customer, remind you in the business feed of, in essence, invoices that are overdue, capital that we can give you access to. And that's what I just mentioned are elements of what some of our customers are using today.
And so, we're really right now focused on sort of money in, money out because those are the most critical areas for our customers. And if I just take a step forward, ultimately, our entire goal because of our advantage, which is data and AI. Our goal is that we do all of the work for our customers. These examples I just illustrated is all on that path.
Now, what it means for us as a company beyond the -- of course, the benefit of helping drive revenue growth and profitability growth for businesses. What it means for us is we believe it will have an impact in a couple of areas: one, new customer growth, particularly the smaller customers; but then two, adoption of our services because the examples I just mentioned, take a picture of a scribble note, upload a PDF file, we'll create estimates, invoicing progress payments, that all turns into revenue for us. And that, by the way, doesn't even touch on the fact that embedded in our platform going forward is going to be AI-powered live expertise, which is a monetizable event ultimately with the goal of we do everything for you and with you. And so, it will be an enormous sort of part of our experience and growth in the future.
And we're making really good progress. All of which, by the way, will also show all of you at Investor Day. And I'll end with where I started. None of this is contemplated in our guidance, but it's a big part of our future, and we're excited about it. 
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you. We'll go next now to Kartik Mehta at Northcoast Research.
Kartik Mehta -- Northcoast Research -- Analyst
Good evening, Sasan and Sandeep. Just a question on tax. Sasan, it seems as though you're executing on the live products, you're starting to execute on the full service. I'm just wondering, what was the thought of maybe lowering guidance now, considering the momentum you're building in the business?
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. Thank you for the question. First of all, I would start with -- it's actually one platform, and that's the power of our scale. Customers, ultimately, can do it themselves, they can do it with assistance, or we'll do it for customers.
And it's all on TurboTax platform and our experts, our virtual experts all sit on the same platform, except they're on the other side of the platform, which is leveraging the customers' data and AI capabilities to do their taxes for them or with them. So, I just wanted to start with that foundational point that it's not a lot of different products. It's actually one platform, which is what gives us the scale that we're looking for. When we make decisions around long-term expectations, we don't make them lightly.
In fact, I think it was five and a half years ago, right, when I became CEO. We had updated the long-term expectations of tax. And so, we take these decisions very seriously. And really what -- and so it's something we've been thinking about for some time.
And really, it comes down to a very a simple math equation. When you look at the TAM, which is $35 billion, $5 billion do it yourself and $30 billion assisted both consumer and business, that's where the largest growth opportunity is. That's where we're really growing high double digits, 17% with customers growing 11%. And it's 30% of the franchise today, and we are also being very aggressive with DIY, both complex higher-income customers.
But based on some green shoots that we saw this year, we're also going to be very assertive with lower-income folks that are in the do-it-yourself category. And in that context, we just felt like the time was right to not only guide prudently for the coming year but also adjust the long-term expectations. And I want to reiterate what you heard from Sandeep it's an interim adjust. And once we get to sustained, growth double digit, we'll then rethink the long-term guidance.
But until then, that's what informed the decision that we made.
Kartik Mehta -- Northcoast Research -- Analyst
And just one follow-up, Sasan. As you look at the health of the Small Business, any change as you look throughout the quarter? Any changes that maybe give you concern or hope what's happening to your customers?
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
The headline I would give you, Kartik, is stable. Across our small businesses, generally, this differs, by the way, by sector, by state, by country. But at an Uber level, we see revenue and profitability up in this fiscal year for businesses that we serve. We see cash reserves still down 6% to 7% compared to last year, but it's way up compared to pre-pandemic levels.
We also see hours worked higher. So, headline is it's stable. And by the way, we see the same thing on the consumer side, which is stable.
Kartik Mehta -- Northcoast Research -- Analyst
Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
We'll go next now to Daniel Jester with BMO Capital Markets.
Great. Thanks for taking my question. It was great to hear about QBO Live, the number of clients more than tripling. Can you maybe spend a moment talking about what's resonating there? And as you sort of move more into the middle market, what's the opportunity for QBO Live to accelerate that more upmarket push? Thanks.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. Thank you for the question. Let me start with your question of what's resonated with the smaller businesses. For us, we've actually had product market fit, meaning that our experts on our platform can really help our businesses with bookkeeping, accounting, providing advice.
Really, the biggest challenge that we've been working through in the last year is how to think about the benefit, how to think about the offering. How do we actually go to market? Because the great news is every business, at some point in their life throughout a year, they're engaging a bookkeeper and an accountant. So, we're not trying to create opportunity. The opportunity is there.
It's just it's manual, it's disaggregated. It's high price. And so, really, the biggest thing has been our focus on how do you really help the customer understand that this is now a part of our platform and that we can help them with all the key problems that they have. And I would say that that's an area where we really uncovered how to do that, and we're accelerating.
And I don't want to make you feel like we've reached the destination. I think we still have a lot of work to do in this area. But really, I would say, cracked a nut that we're excited about, particularly around our decision to embed AI-powered experts into our offering as we look ahead. And lastly, this is a far bigger opportunity with larger customers because they expected.
They expect a CFO for a hire and HR for hire. They expect an assistant to be able to help them with their books, with their accounting, with their employee inventory decisions. And so, part of what you'll hear us talk about at Investor Day is as we're accelerating our focus with mid-market, with a business suite that has all the key capabilities that a business needs a big element of it is the expertise that it comes with. I think the differentiator for us is these are AI-powered experts that sit on the platform, can really provide a range of services for customers.
But we believe it's a bigger opportunity as we move upmarket. And last thing, by the way, I'll end with, these are small sample sizes still. But the -- those that have live experts, the attach and use of services like payments and payroll actually higher, which really is a great benefit for customers and for us.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
We'll go next now to Arvind Ramnani at Piper Sandler.
Hi. This is Arvind. Thanks for taking my question. Just a couple of questions.
In some of the prior calls, you have provided some additional color on some of the kind of benefits you're seeing with AI. And given the -- 
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Arvind, you're cutting in and out. We can now -- please go ahead and continue.
Yeah. I'm just trying to get some color on your -- some of the impact of AI that you've seen both from a revenue add but also from a cost perspective across the business. Is there any additional information you're able to kind of provide in terms of quantification of those benefits you're starting to see?
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. Thank you for your question. I think a couple of things I would say. First of all, we're seeing the impact of our usage and innovation across all of our platforms.
Across Credit Karma, it's really driving a lot of the automation and do it for our customers within TurboTax, even with TurboTax full service, we're doing a lot of the work for experts so that they can serve more customers and, of course, across our business platform that I articulated the examples earlier. So, I want to first be clear, this is broad-based across our entire platform. We are really focused on how AI reimagines our internal work within Intuit as well. I would say the -- really, the revenue is immaterial this year, and we didn't account for anything in the coming year, but we believe it will be a large driver of growth in the future years.
And the growth will be really usage of services, better conversion, better retention, and these are the green shoots that we're seeing with, for instance, our million businesses that are using it today. And in terms of our cost structure, remember, data and AI have been core to our investment thesis and our Bets over the last five, six years. And what we do is not capital intensive. At the same time, we're very intentional about the investments that we've had to make and any investments we need to make to win in this world of AI has been contemplated in the guidance that you heard from Sandeep.
I don't know, Sandeep, if you'd add anything.
Sandeep Aujla -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
No, I think that covers it. One thing to keep in mind as we compare us to possibly other companies in your portfolio, one point, AI sort of really been in our run rate. So, I wouldn't expect any meaningful change in our cost structure. Secondly, we use AWS for a lot of the processing.
So, it's not like we're building up our own data centers. So, that's also very asset-light for us. And the other factor, as Sasan alluded to, we are, quite frankly, also seeing improvements in our own productivity. We are seeing improvements in our developer productivity.
We're seeing improvements in our overall G&A productivity. So, just factors to keep in mind that AI should not be -- not getting in the way of our commitment to continue to find operating leverage and continue to scale our margin over time.
Perfect. And just one quick follow-up. Just on TurboTax Live, as you're thinking of kind of directing questions or your customers to having kind of AI sort of answer it versus QuickBooks Live or sort of the kind of accountant or CPA. Obviously, the AI is going to be like a lower ARPU versus like directing someone who is basically like more like service-oriented.
How do you balance that? Because does come at like a higher ARPU, but lower margin. And of course, AI is lower revenue, lower ARPU, but higher margins. How do you balance that out?
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yeah. Well, I think the premise of what you're articulating is not what we're seeing. We actually believe that based on all of our investments with data and AI, it's actually higher ARPU because it drives better attach of our services. It actually drives more attach of our human-powered expertise.
And by the way, when our human-powered experts or AI-powered human experts get involved, they're actually quite effective and productive because they're sitting on our data and AI platform. So, we're actually seeing two things: one, higher ARPU over time because of what I articulated; but also more effective and efficiency on our platform because we are as aggressive as we are in applying AI externally as we are as aggressive internally, based on what you just heard Sandeep talk about. So, it's actually the reverse of the premise that you talked about in terms of what we see. I don't know, Sandeep, if you would add anything.
Sandeep Aujla -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. The thing to keep in mind is AI is -- the name of the game is confidence and eliminating fear, uncertainty, and doubt. And by using AI, by using our AI-powered experts, we're actually doing that at scale. And the important thing to keep in mind is it's actually helping us open up the aperture of the customers we can serve and really go after penetrating a TAM.
That's driving a lot of the success that you've seen in the assisted category. Some of those are fully outsourced to us, some of those that do it with me. So, just something to keep in mind as you look at the strategic opportunities that this opens up for us as well.
That's incredibly helpful. thank you very much.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you. We go next now to Brad Sills with Bank of America.
Great. Wonderful. I wanted to ask a question around the platform for AI, the GenOS, and the studio that you've outlined in the past, I know it's a little further out to start thinking about separate SKUs, and it sounds like this is more of a conversion and a retention play in the near term. But what were some of the learnings that you had over the course of the year in building out that platform for AI, harnessing the data, and some of the platform components that you've outlined at the Analyst Day last year that are underpinning that.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Sure. You know, first of all, let me start with your question around the SKUs. This is a progression, and this is a really important element to call out. What you heard us talk about is that we believe -- and we're seeing this in our proof points.
And the green shoots that we're seeing is that, one, this will drive new customer growth because we will just make it far easier and simpler for a new customer to use our digital platform that comes with AI-powered experts. Two, we believe that it's an opportunity for the adoption of our services, which also includes Live. Services like payments, payroll, Mailchimp, and our live platform, which is our AI-powered human experts. And those are significant customer and growth drivers for us.
The progression is as we are focused on the innovation that we articulated earlier, things such as literally a customer being able to take a picture of a scribble note, upload a PDF document for us to be able to put together an estimate all the way to getting them paid following up with their customers, putting marketing campaigns together for them. The progression is we'll get to a place where we'll actually test stand-alone SKUs where the AI agent is doing everything for the customer. And that could be a stand-alone SKU that we could test sometime in the future, but you have to progress your way to that. And that's really what the element of progression talks to.
The last thing, which I think was the other element of your question, what we're doing is really hard, which we love because it's hard to replicate. And what's hard about it is, first, you have to have the data. And we have a lot of data. It's our customers' data.
But when you look at it for every business, we have 500,000 data points. That means we are uniquely positioned to be able to help them with managing their cash flow because it's about their cash flow. It's not about something generic because we see all of their money coming in, money going out, the creditworthiness of their vendors, the employees that they have. And so, the investments that we've made in the data has been more than ever crucial because then it allows us to leverage our GenOS platform, which is our GenAI capabilities, and train the Intuit LLM on the customer's data to be able to then deliver the experiences that I was just articulating and our LLMS have agency and authority to be able to use other LLMs that could enhance the experience.
So, the biggest thing that we've learned to sort of punchline answer your question is the combination of the data investments, the investments we've made in knowledge engineering, machine learning, and our LLM that really delivers accuracy performance cost-effectively is extremely hard to copy because we live in a world of financial management, and that's really our biggest advantage going forward and really our biggest growth opportunity as we look ahead.
That's exciting. Thanks, Sasan.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, that is all the time we have for questions this afternoon. At this time, Mr. Goodarzi, I'd like to turn things back to you for any closing comments, sir.
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Well, listen, everybody, thank you for your time. Thank you for all of your questions, and we hope to see all of you at Investor Day. Be safe. We'll see you soon.
Kim A. Watkins -- Vice President, Investor Relations
Sasan K. Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Sandeep Aujla -- Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Sasan Goodarzi -- Chief Executive Officer and Director
Kartik Mehta -- Northcoast Research -- Analyst
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not


================================================================================
TICKER: COIN | DATE: 2025-10-25
================================================================================
Thursday, October 30, 2025 8:56 p.m. ET
Need a quote from a Motley Fool analyst? Email [email protected]
Coinbase (COIN +2.62%) reported a marked acceleration in both spot and derivatives trading volumes, with consumer spot trading growing faster than the global market and the derivatives portfolio achieving all-time highs after the Deribit acquisition. Management provided direct guidance for fiscal fourth quarter 2025, forecasting continued revenue strength across transaction, subscription, and services lines, while also signaling higher operating expenses linked to M&A and headcount. The company achieved a significant expansion in listed assets via DEX integration and emphasized progress toward its strategic ambitions, including broad cross-asset trading and scaling the Everything Exchange framework.
Brian Armstrong: Thanks, Anil. It was another great quarter for Coinbase. We continue to drive strong financial performance and build the Everything Exchange that we had announced last quarter. Financially, Coinbase's core business is incredibly strong, and we're very well positioned for the opportunities ahead of us. Our strong financial performance in Q3 was driven by continued product execution. Total revenue was $1.9 billion, adjusted EBITDA was $801 million. We ended Q3 with $11.9 billion in USD resources and another $2.6 billion in long-term crypto investments. So just a quick refresher. Our mission is to increase economic freedom in the world at Coinbase and crypto is the technology that we're going to harness to get there.
Crypto rails will power more and more of financial services over time because they're faster, cheaper and more global. With just a smartphone, for instance, anyone in the world can access trading and payments, raise money to start a business or get access to credit. Coinbase is the most trusted brand in crypto with deep technical expertise. And as finance moves to these rails with increasing regulatory clarity, we're uniquely positioned to lead and capture the upside of this paradigm shift. In Q2, we introduced the Everything Exchange, a one-stop shop to trade every asset class. Customers want one venue to trade spot crypto assets, derivatives and options, but also equities, prediction markets, commodities and more.
In Q3, we executed on that vision by expanding spot coverage, growing our derivatives offering and laying the groundwork for new asset classes on our platform. In terms of spot coverage, we turbocharged our trading platform in Q3 by adding decentralized exchange or DEX integrations, which expanded access to tradable assets from about 300 to over 40,000 assets in the U.S. With DEX integrated under the hood, customers get day 1 access to new tokens as they are created, and we capture the upside when one of those takes off. We've also made strong progress in growing our derivatives product. As a reminder, derivatives account for about 80% of all crypto trading volume.
And in Q3, we were the first to launch CFTC-regulated 24/7 perpetual style futures in the U.S. Early traction is strong for our U.S. style perps product, which helps drive all-time highs in U.S. derivatives volumes and market share. We closed the Deribit acquisition, bringing the #1 crypto options venue into Coinbase and Deribit plus Coinbase saw over $840 billion in total derivatives volume in Q3, driven by stronger participation from institutions and advanced traders. Next, let's touch on how we're accelerating stablecoin adoption by improving payments. The majority of global payments will shift to stablecoins over time because they allow you to send money anywhere in the world in under 1 second for less than $0.01.
No other payment rail can match this. Adoption is already well underway as stablecoin market cap hit $300 billion driven by companies and financial institutions using them for payments and treasury, and we expect policy tailwinds like the GENIUS Act to continue to accelerate this. In Q3, Coinbase customers held on average, $15 billion of USDC on platform, making us the largest contributor to USCC's all-time high $74 billion market cap. USDC continues to be the top-performing major stablecoin in the crypto ecosystem, growing more than 2x as much as the largest competitor. In closing, with regulatory clarity accelerating, crypto rails are set to power more and more of global GDP for trading, payments in every financial service.
Coinbase is well positioned to be the partner of choice for companies and financial institutions, including Citi, which we just announced last week, who are looking to come on chain. Through the end of the year, we're heads down building the Everything Exchange and scaling stablecoin payments with USDC. Speaking of which, I'm super excited to share that on December 17, we're hosting our H2 product event, but we'll go through everything we've built in the second half of this year. Tune into the live stream for a closer look at the next phase of the Everything Exchange. I'll now turn it over to Alesia.
Alesia Haas: Thanks, Brian, and good afternoon, everyone. As Brian shared, it was a strong quarter for Coinbase. We had total revenue of $1.9 billion, net income of $433 million, adjusted EBITDA was $801 million, and adjusted net income was $421 million. So let's dive deeper into our Q3 results. As always, any comparison I'll share is going to be on a quarter-over-quarter basis unless I note otherwise. In the third quarter, our U.S. and global spot -- sorry, global spot market trading volume increased 29% and 38%, respectively. This is a global market. Against that, our Coinbase's Q3 consumer spot trading volume grew 37% to $59 billion. And consumer transaction revenue grew 30% to $844 million.
The main difference between the growth rate in volume and revenue was due to a higher mix of advanced trading volume, which has a lower fee rate. A couple of callouts on what drove this growth. First, as Brian mentioned, we made progress on growing the number of assets available to our customers, both in terms of spot and derivatives assets. Second, our advanced trading volumes were supported by price increases in the long tail of assets as well as our concerted effort to attract and retain high priority traders through a new white glove service offering. Our institutional business had strong results across the board. Total institutional transaction revenue was $135 million, up 122%.
The primary growth driver was derivatives. We closed Deribit on August 14, which contributed $52 million to revenue, driven by continued growth of options trading, which led to all-time high notional volumes. Additionally, we saw revenue growth in both our exchange and Coinbase prime businesses in the third quarter. Now turning to S&S revenue, which grew 14% quarter-over-quarter to $747 million. We saw strong native unit inflows across USDC balances in Coinbase products, average loan balances across our institutional financing products and assets under custody. We ended the third quarter with $516 billion in assets on platform. Total operating expenses decreased 9% to $1.4 billion.
Technology & Development, general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses collectively increased 14% to $1.1 billion, largely driven by headcount and USDC rewards growth. I note that Deribit contributed $30 million to total operating expenses in the third quarter, including $16 million in deal-related amortization, the majority of which was recorded in sales and marketing. We ended the third quarter with 4,795 full-time employees, up 12%. I want to turn your attention to 2 below-the-line items that affected our GAAP profitability. First, we had a $424 million gain from the ongoing fair value remeasurement of our crypto investment portfolio.
Second, we had a $381 million expense in other expenses, largely driven by unrealized losses related to our investment in Circle as their stock price was lower as of the end of third quarter as it compared to the end of second quarter. Including both of these items, net income was $433 million. Excluding both of these items, adjusted net income was $421 million. Now let's turn to our Q4 outlook. The fourth quarter is off to a strong start, and we expect October transaction revenue to be approximately $385 million.
We expect subscription and services revenue to be in the range of $710 million to $790 million, driven by higher average crypto prices and continued growth of the Coinbase One subscriber base. On the expense side, our expense range is higher quarter-over-quarter for tech and dev and G&A in the range of $925 million to $975 million, up approximately $100 million at the midpoint. Approximately half of this increase is due to the recent acquisitions of Deribit and Echo. The remainder of the quarter-over-quarter increase is largely due to headcount growth, which we expect to grow at a slower rate in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
Sales and marketing is expected to be in the range of $215 million to $315 million. Where we land in this range will largely be determined by performance marketing spend opportunities and USDC balances and Coinbase products, which drive USDC rewards. Included within the above outlook ranges is approximately $70 million of total depreciation and amortization for Q4. This is an increase from historical averages, which has been driven higher due to amortization of intangibles from our recent acquisitions. Over the course of 2025, we've made a significant investment in headcount to capitalize on the many opportunities we see and accelerate our vision on the Everything Exchange.
As we look to early 2026, we plan to absorb the employees we brought into the company and focus on execution and anticipate that our sequential rate of operating expense growth will slow as compared to our Q4 rate. With that, let's go to questions.
Anil Gupta: Thanks. So let's begin with pre-submitted questions from retail shareholders. Many of the top questions touch on similar topics, so for efficiency we'll group by theme. The first topic is about competition. What's the plan to improve product innovation and velocity and increase market share? How are you thinking about listing stocks in prediction markets given the success of others. Brian?
Brian Armstrong: Yes. So on this question, I'd say that we've spent a lot of time investing in policy and getting regulatory clarity both in the U.S. and a number of countries around the world. And that's starting to bear fruit, which is great. It's growing the TAM of crypto. It's making it trusted and regulated. Even as more and more people come into the space, we're able to power a lot of the -- that with our infrastructure services. But it does mean that lots of new competition is coming in. And so we need to make sure we're executing well. And we've talked since Q2 about this Everything Exchange vision.
We've made really substantial progress toward that already areas where I think we're best in class, like I mentioned, the DEX integrations where we went from 300 tradable assets to 40,000 tradable assets in Q3. And we were the first to launch the CFTC-regulated U.S. perpetual style futures contracts, which has been growing really well. So there's a lot to like that there. Now we've been heads down working on the next pieces of that because we think that every asset class is going to come on chain. And our customers are asking for this, too, prediction markets and tokenized stocks and every on-chain asset you can imagine.
So the Everything Exchange is really central to the next chapter of what we're building and I'm really excited that we'll have more to share on that on December 17 at our product showcase, so please tune into the live stream for that. And I'd say that Everything Exchange is really a perfect complement to all the other features that we've built into Coinbase including DeFi borrow lend, USDC, global payments, Coinbase card, people really love that product Base is having really strong momentum. And so I think these are all going to come together to be -- and our goal long term is to be the #1 financial app, and that's what we're working on.
Anil Gupta: Thanks, Brian. So the second topic is Base. Brian, can you elaborate on how you're thinking about a Base network token and in particular, how shareholders could be beneficiaries of the distribution? And Alesia, can you talk about the monetization of the Base network and how that might evolve over time?
Brian Armstrong: Yes. So I'll start it off. We're still early on exploring a Base network token. But the high-level goal is to help bring 1 billion people on chain and just to really grow the developer and create our ecosystem around Base. So there's not any specifics that we're going to announce today on the governance or distribution model or the timing of it exactly. But we are going to build this in the open and just continue talking with our customers, investors, regulators to make sure that we get it right. So Alesia, anything you want to add?
Alesia Haas: I'll just speak about monetization. So on the Base chain, we monetize through sequencer fees. And we've talked historically about how we have direct monetization through sequencer fees, but we also monetize indirectly as those who are building apps on Base, often, will then incorporate USDC. They will often need to be able to buy other crypto. They may need custody solutions. And so we do monetize the other products and services by the growth of the overall ecosystem and the growth of on chain developers. What I would share, though, is the Base app that we are building that on Base we'll have other monetization opportunities. The Base app is monetizing through trading fees, it is monetizing through advertising.
And while it's early days, we see opportunities to have revenue profiles that look similar, honestly, to the Coinbase main app in terms of transaction fees, maybe some subscription fees, maybe advertising fees, some various different ways that we can monetize in that app. But we'll talk more about that as that grows over time.
Anil Gupta: All right. Thank you, both. So we'll now take questions from the research analysts. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Bank of America.
Craig Siegenthaler: Our question is on Echo. So how will Echo help expand your network by making it more easy for crypto companies to raise and invest via private sales or public sales with Sonar.
Brian Armstrong: Yes. I can start off and then Emilie, if you want to add anything, that would be great. Yes. I mean, one of our -- as I mentioned, we believe that every type of financial service is going to come on chain and crypto is this technology to update the financial system. And so capital formation is certainly a big piece of that, right? We think that it can be much more efficient, the fees can be reduced, people more around the world can have better access to it. This will just accelerate the economy. So Echo was a really innovative, I think, in a company that we decided to go acquire to get a foothold here.
And we're trying to make it easy for anyone to raise money. And then the beauty of combining it with Coinbase is that, we have now over $500 billion of assets. We have a large number of retail institutional customers or credit investors that want to invest in unique assets. And so you can just see like the double -- the 2-sided marketplace coming together here in a really powerful way as we think more and more about capital formation and how crypto can update that.
Emilie Choi: Yes, agreed. We're really excited about it. The management team for Echo has a great nose for what the most compelling companies will be to launch. And so if Echo launches these great companies and tokens and those are successful, it helps us deeply because we're moving up the stack. And where coins are issued before they graduate to the exchange. So it's kind of vertical integration that we think is quite powerful for the whole ecosystem of Coinbase products.
Anil Gupta: Let's take our next question from Ken Worthington at JPMorgan.
Kenneth Worthington: The pace of announced M&A seems to be rising for Coinbase versus what we may have seen in recent years. How is the more regulatory and political certainty in the U.S. impacting the pace of innovation? And would you expect this pace of innovation to drive Coinbase to be more active in M&A as we look forward? And then in terms of the innovation that we're seeing, are there certain themes that you are focused on trying to capture as we look forward?
Emilie Choi: Thanks for the question. I'll start and then Brian, Alesia feel free to jump in. So to take a step back, we worked really, really hard to get to this place of regulatory clarity and we think that, that just generally provides more opportunities and key bets and more predictability with this type of M&A and these types of investments. So these companies just have more certainty than they did in an environment where there was regulation by enforcement.
When we look to the spectrum of opportunities, we do look a lot to some of the best tech companies of all time and how they were able to use M&A to massively accelerate adoption and so we're very excited about some of the opportunities on the horizon. In terms of the areas that we're interested in, we're always kind of keying in on the priorities that the company has outlined whether those include trading and payments and these other areas that are very interesting to Coinbase. And then we also try to look ahead as there might be strategic opportunities that present themselves.
So we're always on a lookout and when we think -- we always look at buy, build partner invest and then determine which is the right vehicle for us at that moment.
Brian Armstrong: Yes. I'd just say, you're right. The pace has picked up. The political environment definitely helps with that. And all of this M&A is really in service of our core focus around trading and payments. So it's been great.
Anil Gupta: Our next question is from Pete Christiansen at Citi.
Peter Christiansen: And nice execution on a bunch of partnership deals signed in the quarter. I do want to ask about Coinbase's operational infrastructure. I mean we've had some really busy trading days in the last quarter. There's been cloud service providers, multiple have had issues this year. I know that Coinbase has spent a lot this year bulking up customer service. How would you assess where Coinbase is in terms of its operating infrastructure today? Redundancy? And how are you thinking about investments there going forward? That would be helpful.
Brian Armstrong: Yes. I mean I can start off. Like many companies, we were impacted by AWS outages. I think it always raises this question of, should we be pursuing a more robust multi-cloud approach. We already do use multi-clouds in a variety of ways, but we haven't made what would be a substantial investment to make every service in the company redundant to a certain cloud outage. So it's always a trade-off. Now these clouds are also kind of working hard to build their own redundancy. And so you always have to factor that into other priorities and investments that you could make and look at the cost benefit analysis.
Emilie Choi: And I would just say in terms of like some of the things we're really excited about as well, we're very invested in automation. Currently, 65% of our customer support interactions are fully automated. We're trying to push that number up rapidly. And then we're also rolling out deep reasoning LLM agents to automate the majority of compliance investigations in 2026. So there's a lot of really interesting areas for automation over the next several years as well.
Brian Armstrong: Yes. And I guess your question maybe think of actually on October 10, there was also a record level of activity across crypto exchanges. And in that case, we actually operated very well without disruption. And we didn't have any downtime or degraded latency around market data or anything like that. So that was a result of a lot of investments we've made over the last year or 2 in doing load testing and making sure we didn't have any reversions as new software is being developed. Several major exchanges experienced extended outages during that time, and we didn't have any. And so I was really proud of how that part came to be?
Anil Gupta: Next question is from Ben Budish at Barclays.
Benjamin Budish: In your shareholder letter, I believe you talked about a new sort of white glove service for the advanced retail trader. Just curious if you could talk about that a little bit more. And is there anything to read in there regarding the state of competition among retail trading? It seems like there are newly listed crypto exchange competitors, other -- I guess you could say legacy competitors try to expand their offering and be more competitive. So is there anything to read into there? How would you describe the state of competition there? And can you talk a little bit about this service?
Alesia Haas: Maybe I'll start and then feel free to add on, Brian. Our white glove service has been made available to some of our high-value advanced traders. So this is not a service available to all of our retail traders, but to our very specific high-value advanced traders. And it provides some concierge-level support, the personal account manager and really makes commitments around time to resolve the issues, making sure they can trade seamlessly that they don't run into any hiccups with our services. With regards to our broader retail program there, we are really pleased to have our trading volume exceed overall U.S. spot volume in the quarter. So we're really seeing strong adoption of our products and services.
There's more to do there, as Brian said, which is why we are building towards the Everything Exchange to continue to meet our customers where they are and provide broader access to all assets they would like to trade.
Brian Armstrong: Yes, not much to add. I would just say that, in trading, I mean, there are whales that are out there that drive a disproportionate amount of volume. And so it's important for them to have a dedicated relationship manager that can help them resolve any issue, but also it has partially a sales function. So I think it's just a good example of us maturing as a company and recording the best customers.
Anil Gupta: Let's go now to Owen Lau from Clear Street.
Owen Lau: Could you please talk about innovation in Coinbase business. It has global payout, I think it enables business to send and receive USDC with lower fees. You're also making an announcement with Citi to develop digital asset payment capabilities. I know it's still early here, but I'm wondering what you have heard from the banks and merchants so far about these deal capabilities? And have you started to see more merchants moving into blockchain or even considering moving into blockchain?
Brian Armstrong: Yes. Well, I'll start off. So obviously, we have our first-party business with retail and businesses and institutions, which is growing really well. But I'm also really proud that Coinbase has built out infrastructure that can power other companies. And -- we call that product Coinbase developer platform or CDP. It's -- sometimes people think of it as crypto-as-a-service. And what's great is that we've been able to close 264 institutions now that are using that product, including large companies like JPMorgan, BlackRock, Citi, PNC, fintechs like Stripe, PayPal, Revolut, Webull. So I think that this is going to increasingly be an important part of our business.
It just allows us to have different revenue streams and participate in the value creation as more and more companies come in to integrate with crypto. That's going to be all banks, all fintechs, all payment service providers, but it's also going to be nonfinancial services related companies. I mean we're also working with, for instance, Shopify on powering payments for them. So I think it's similar to what Amazon did with AWS. I think this third-party infrastructure can be a powerful business for us over time.
Alesia Haas: Owen, maybe I could add on here for you, though. We've really been building the various infrastructure layers and are pleased to have a more vertically integrated payments product that we're bringing to market. It starts with Base, which is our Layer 2 solution, USDC and other stablecoins. We've now built out payments APIs. And we're now bringing those forward to our customers via Coinbase the Base app and then directly to businesses. So what we're seeing here is, one, we are a partner of choice. We continue to win mandates from large financial players, fintechs, as Brian shared.
But we're also seeing small and medium-sized businesses really come to our platform as we enable them to more efficiently manage their capital and their liquidity through instant settlement via stablecoins, while we're earning rewards now on any idle funds that they hold in USDC. So we've seen great early traction with over 1,000 businesses onboarded, and we have a growing wait list.
Anil Gupta: Let's go next to Devin Ryan at Citizens.
Devin Ryan: Great. Just want to ask a question about Deribit. Obviously, you haven't had it on the platform for too long, but seems like it's doing well here out of the gate for Coinbase. So just love to kind of think about kind of the integration thus far, what that informs around potential future product development and cross-sell opportunities for Coinbase? And just more broadly, if you can just touch on kind of the scaling plan now that it's fully integrated or part of Coinbase.
Alesia Haas: So it officially just closed in August, and we onboarded 100 employees in September. So they had record volume in the month of August. Their revenue has been growing. And where we are right now is we're really working to integrate their products seamlessly with our products. So we can bring together spot derivatives and derivatives meaning both perpetual futures, futures and options, all under one roof. We, in the quarter, had brought forward for our U.S. customers, spot and derivatives cross-margining, and it enables capital efficiency where our customers really value the ability to get better leverage, better margin on their trading products.
And so we think that, that is a future that we can bring forward to options as well. So the goal is going to be integrated for the next few quarters, so we can bring everything under one roof and enable side-by-side trading of these products and services to our institutional clients.
Anil Gupta: We'll take our next question from Patrick Moley at Piper Sandler.
Patrick Moley: I just had one on the Everything Exchange. I was wondering if you could update us on the time line or some of the milestones we should be looking out for as you introduce new asset classes to that platform.
Brian Armstrong: Yes. Well, some of them are already live, right? I mentioned the DEX integration, the U.S. style perps. And December 17 is going to be another milestone for us. We're hosting that H2 product event, where we'll be giving an update on everything we've been working on in the second half of this year. So that will be a good one to tune into on the live stream.
Anil Gupta: Let's go next to James Yaro from Goldman Sachs.
James Yaro: Could you help us think through the impacts of the crypto liquidations on October 10 on markets as well as on the various market participants? Do you see any medium-term ramifications? And are there any lessons learned that you think could improve market function going forward?
Alesia Haas: I'll start and others can add on. So obviously, the events of October 10 led to some liquidation as folks had to delever to address the sharp sell-off in certain assets. We are really pleased that we did not see significant liquidations on our platform. And as Brian shared earlier, our platforms really withstood the volatility quite well during that window. In part, that's due to the design of our products and the approach that we've taken to leverage with our products. One of the observations that I would have broadly in the market is today, there's very few of us that are publicly traded that have as much transparency into our operations, our risk management, our balance sheets.
And so we do have these risks and throughout the overall ecosystem of operational errors that then lead to deleveraging events. I think over time, you'll see more and more companies come into a regulatory framework, more and more companies go public. And so this risk will reduce over time because transparency then helps all risk, and the more sunlight the better in some of these areas. But I would say that the market rebounded quite nicely from this, and I don't see any systemic losses or any kind of continued fallout from that sell-off.
Anil Gupta: We'll take our next question from Andrew Jeffrey at William Blair.
Andrew Jeffrey: I appreciate the question. Brian, I definitely agree with your vision on stablecoins. I wonder if you can sort of dimensionalize for us sort of timing in your mind for more commercial adoption outside of crypto? And the role you think Coinbase plays in that cross-border commerce. And whether or not it changes -- whether or not your economics change with volume as USDC takes off.
Brian Armstrong: Yes. Well, interesting. I mean, I think taking that last part first, I'm not seeing a change in economics yet. I think we're still super early in this, and it's growing really fast. And so it will be interesting to see how that plays out. I mean we have different ways to monetize it like with Base sequencer fees and with USDC, you could, of course, charge directly for the payments themselves. But I think just zooming out, I mean, payments are just very clearly the next big use case for crypto. I think it started with trading, payments are really -- are growing enormously now. And I would say just in general, it's a massive market, right?
Like cross-border payments are something like $40 trillion in volume annually. B2B is 75% of that, which is an early use case for stablecoins. And we're now seeing about $100 billion in annual stablecoin volume, which is growing rapidly. So and we're going to keep participating in this space across a number of different areas. We're building payments for businesses. Coinbase businesses are account for small, medium-sized businesses. We're adding various products and services in there around invoices and how to pay contractors and vendors. A lot of it's cross border, but even within country, it's powerful. We had -- since we announced that product just recently, we've had about 1,000 businesses onboarded already.
There's another 1,000 on the wait list. We're also integrating payments into our retail app for Coinbase and into the new Base app. So I think that will be powerful. And then we can be one of the -- I think we're really one of the only companies that can start to connect these businesses and consumers together, right, in the 2-sided market and Shopify is an example of that, where we're powering USDC checkout for their merchants. And when you're -- these merchants, it's a big deal because they're used to paying 2% to 3% in fees, for people to move money over the Internet. There's no reason that, that needs to exist, I don't think.
I mean -- and when you can do it in less than a second, less than $0.01, flat fee regardless of the amount it just has a lot more of the value. You can give some of that back to the consumer. Like in Shopify's case, they're giving 1% back to the people who pay with USDC, but the merchant also saves money. So it's just kind of a win for everyone. And I think that when you lower friction in the economy like that, you see an order of magnitude more activity happening, it can really have a dramatic effect.
So I guess -- just one other item to touch on in the payment space, which I think is really innovative that we're doing is there's a protocol we came out which is called x402. And what this is, it's a way to attach a stablecoin payment to any web request. You may be familiar with 404, which is on the Internet, like it's file not found, right, if you go to a page that doesn't exist. There's actually another code called 402 in the HTTP spec, which was originally put in there for payment required.
Now it was never really implemented in most web browsers because the web browser never became a place where you put in your credit card, you put it into the website itself, not the browser. But anyway, we decided to go ahead and ship this, and it's attracted a lot of attention in the last month or so, partners like Cloudflare and Vercel and Google have started working with this. It's caused a lot of people to go sign up for Coinbase developer platform to start building these integrations. So it's still early days, but for payments happening over the Internet for AI agent payments, that's another big emerging area.
We shipped an open source tool kit called AgentKit that lets any AI agent put a stablecoin wallet inside it. So we're starting to see a lot of things happen with payments on the frontier now. And yes, I think this is going to be a big area for crypto and for Coinbase.
Anil Gupta: Our next question comes from Bo Pei at US Tiger.
Bo Pei: In the shareholder letter, you mentioned scaling back rebates and incentives in derivatives. Could you quantify how that's affecting take rate and whether you expect this to help margin expansion in Q4 and 2026?
Alesia Haas: Bo it's a great question. So we are -- we have scaled back those incentives, and you can see that in the overall institutional growth. We did not attribute out any change in take rate. And it's very difficult to look at take rate for the institutional business given the acquisition of Deribit, given the growth of the derivatives platform, which is not reported in underlying trading volume. So there's been no change to the overall pricing of any of the products and services in any material way quarter-over-quarter, but there has been a lot of mix shift and just change in the drivers of the total institutional platform.
We are pleased to be able to change the incentives in derivatives because we've seen more liquidity and just more solid sticky organic open interest growth in that platform, which has enabled more profitable growth for our international derivatives business.
Anil Gupta: Our next question is from Alex Markgraff at KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Alexander Markgraff: Alesia, maybe one for you. Just as we think about the many new products and elements of the Coinbase platform, just hoping we could just sort of step back and maybe you could remind us how you're thinking about managing margins across these various products and platform elements? Any way to sort of frame the vision for contribution margin across these new items?
Alesia Haas: So we do have a big mix of products and they do all monetize separately. And in some cases, we have launched products with the sole growth of retention and acquisition. In the case, for example, of the Coinbase card. So what we look to do is monetize the overall customer relationship. For example, on the institutional side, we have many of our customers who are now engaged with 3-plus products and services, and we look to the overall customer relationship and the customer economics versus single product economics. So we're focused on growing overall profits. We're focused on how do we drive total adjusted EBITDA growth at the company level.
And that is how we think about it versus targeting a specific margin by product at this time.
Anil Gupta: We'll take our next question from Dan Dolev at Mizuho.
Dan Dolev: Guys, great results here. I got, I guess 2 quick questions. On the take rates, I appreciate you answering on the institutional take rates. Is there any way you can help us think about sort of how this looks a couple of quarters out? And then I have a very, very quick follow-up, if you don't mind.
Alesia Haas: As we shared before, we don't focus on outlook that far in our public comments. We are focusing on meeting our customers where they are, engaging them with products and services. And we are constantly experimenting with our pricing on the retail side to understand how best our customers engage. Right now, we're really pleased to see the growth of the Coinbase One subscribers. We introduced the new basic tier last quarter and the basic tier along with Coinbase Card is showing a lot of traction.
So over time, we anticipate more and more customers will monetize through many products and services, and we're reducing the overall reliance on trading fees as a single monetization as it was many years ago. But we will adjust fees as needed by the market, and that has been our long-standing approach.
Anil Gupta: We'll go now to Ed Engel from Compass Point.
Edward Engel: Alesia, in the past, you've talked about how 2025 was a bit of a reinvestment year just as you capitalize on the better political environment. I guess with the step-up in fourth quarter OpEx, I'm just kind of thinking, are you still ramping up hiring through the end of the year? Or is most of that headcount growth behind us? I guess I'm just trying to gauge whether this kind of 4Q guidance is a fully baked-in number for some of the reinvestment you made this year?
Alesia Haas: Great question. So as we shared in my opening comments, the outlook for Q4 on our tech and dev and G&A combined is up roughly $100 million quarter-over-quarter. About half of that step-up in cost is due to the 2 acquisitions we made, one being Deribit, the second being Echo. And then the other half is due to headcount growth. So we are still growing headcount in the fourth quarter, although at a much slower rate than we did in the third quarter.
Anil Gupta: Let's go now to Zach Gunn at FT Partners.
Zachary Gunn: I just also wanted to ask on the payment side of things. Historically, when we think about driving adoption of the new payment modality or platform, it takes anywhere from 3% to 5% of overall transaction value incentivize either consumer or merchant or business switching. So can you just talk about what Coinbase is doing to incentivize adoption of its payments platform?
Brian Armstrong: Yes. I mean, you're right. There are a lot of powerful network effects in payments. So we don't want to be flippant about the challenge of coming into these new markets. Luckily, it's not just one Coinbase -- or one company like Coinbase going up against the powers that be here. I think the beauty of crypto is that these are decentralized, open networks, with thousands of companies participating all over the world. So it's a little bit like the Internet going up against some kind of proprietary system, not just one company. Now that being said -- so lots of people -- I mean there's something like $500 billion of assets that we have on platform.
There's a huge number of people around the world now who use crypto, that are holding crypto. So we're starting to get into those categories where it can be meaningful. Now it won't be for every type of merchant, right? I mean if you go to like a Starbucks on the corner, maybe that doesn't hit the threshold, but for a certain type of e-commerce category, it could be that a large enough number of people actually -- the only way they want to pay us was crypto. It opens up micro transactions or new international markets where credit card penetration is low. So we'll see it first take off in areas where people's unmet need is the highest.
And then eventually, it will eat into more and more of it just because it's faster and cheaper and more global. But yes, this will take time for sure. And I guess I mentioned this earlier as well, but a lot of times when people think about payments, they think about buying the proverbial cup of coffee on the corner store. But like the majority of cross-border payments are really like B2B transactions, and that's the area where we're seeing higher adoption for crypto right now.
I mean that's just it's growing like gangbusters frankly, because that's just a very underserved part of the market where businesses want to get their money faster, they want to not have -- be exposed to these FX risks. So those are some of the areas that will take off in first and I think eventually get to the majority of all payments.
Anil Gupta: Let's go next to Joseph Vafi from Canaccord.
Joseph Vafi: Just as a quick side note, just finishing lunch here on the West Coast that I bought with my Coinbase One card. So thanks for a great product. But just maybe double-click on Deribit here a little bit more. And Alesia, I appreciate the commentary on cross-product margin capability and efficiency there. But as you look forward, the distribution of the Coinbase platform is so big. Do you see this as a big share gain or share creator in option transactions? And then can you just remind us on margin structure on a transaction margin basis, how your options and derivatives compare to spot?
Alesia Haas: All right. So Deribit is already the market leader in options. They had over 75% market share for options. Notably, this is all non-U.S. And so there is path to grow the market for options in the U.S.. That is going to be a multi-quarter road map of bringing both the regulatory licenses and product to bear in the U.S., but we think that's a huge opportunity for us. But more importantly, we believe that bringing these products to trade all under one umbrella will be able to grow overall trading volume on all of our products on our platform.
And we've already seen, just by having Deribit closed for a few weeks on our platform, that existing clients have more confidence in the combined balance sheet and now bringing options to the Coinbase balance sheet, they are trading at higher volumes and trading and holding more assets on our platform. So the brand strength, the balance sheet strength that we're able to now put behind Deribit and their strong product and risk management is having outsized benefits to both of us. And we can follow up with you about the margin differential. Obviously, there's no margin on spot trading. We do offer leverage on those assets, but they're very customized by product.
So the -- they look different in each market, and they look different to different customer groups. I don't have a simple way of answering that question for you.
Anil Gupta: We'll take our final question from Gus Gala at Monness, Crespi and Hardt.
Gustavo Gala: I wanted to talk a little bit about the competitive environment between September and October. September was a fantastic month in terms of outgrowing the market at spot in October seemed to reverse that. Just trying to parse out, is this competitive pressure, like present in the system, maybe seeing more aggressive pricing competition from peers in terms of promos, incentives stealing away? Or is it just a mix issue? Just trying to understand what's going on there.
Alesia Haas: We've always faced competition. We are a platform that has multiple customer types, multiple products. And so we all have faced competition since we've been founded on different products, different customer groups within our portfolio. Our focus and our goal is always to deliver the most trusted and easiest to use products to our customers. And we've been really proud of our continued growth in market share, trading volumes, size, and scaling up these various product offerings. So when you think about the competitive pressures in the month of October, there's nothing specific to talk about generally, we are always looking for ways to continue to build and delight our customers.
Brian Armstrong: Yes. I hope we answered your question on that. I was a little distracted because I was tracking the prediction market about what Coinbase will say on their next earnings call. And I just want to add here the words Bitcoin, Ethereum, blockchain, staking and Web3 to make sure we get those in before the end of the call.
Anil Gupta: All right well, we've taken all of our questions. That's it for today. Thanks for joining us, and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Alesia Haas: Before we end, I just want to invite anybody to join us on our X Spaces call next week. And so please follow us on X. And Brian and I will be taking additional questions on Monday.
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. Parts of this article were created using Large Language Models (LLMs) based on The Motley Fool's insights and investing approach. It has been reviewed by our AI quality control systems. Since LLMs cannot (currently) own stocks, it has no positions in any of the stocks mentioned. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not


================================================================================
TICKER: NTRS | DATE: 2026-04-24
================================================================================
Tuesday, April 21, 2026, at 9 a.m. ET
Need a quote from a Motley Fool analyst? Email [email protected]
Management provided strategic clarity around sustaining high ROE and margin levels by aligning investments, talent acquisition, and productivity funding with the One Northern Trust strategy. The increase in Wealth producers targeted at 7%-9% by year-end aims to accelerate organic growth, especially in high-performing regions and family office solutions. Episodic large institutional deposit inflows materially affected deposit averages, and management expects only $4 billion to $5 billion of the recent $9 billion increase to remain into the next quarter. Capital levels remained robust, and management is considering multiple options for redeploying $470 million in anticipated Visa share proceeds but has not committed to a specific use. Basel Endgame preliminary analysis may be "a net positive for," with greater benefit expected for commercial loan exposures and relatively limited operational risk impact stated.
Michael Gerard O’Grady: Thank you, Jennifer. Let me join in welcoming you to our first quarter 2026 earnings call. We are off to a strong start in 2026, reflecting our ability to capitalize on a constructive market and rate environment while continuing to advance our One Northern Trust strategic priorities. Against this backdrop, first quarter trust fees increased 11%, net interest income grew 15%, and total revenue rose 14%, all year over year. While continuing to invest in key growth initiatives, we generated more than 700 basis points of positive operating leverage, driving our pretax margin up nearly 500 basis points to 32% and fueling EPS growth of 43%.
Return on average common equity reached 17.4%, which is at the higher end of our new medium-term target range. And we returned $510 million to shareholders, representing a total payout ratio of 100%. This included $359 million in share repurchases in the first quarter, contributing to a 5% reduction in share count as compared to the previous year. These results confirm that our One Northern Trust strategy is driving steady improvement in organic growth, consistent efficiency gains, and resiliency in a volatile environment. AI is increasingly embedded in how we operate, enabling our teams to deliver more value with greater consistency and speed.
Moving forward, we are accelerating its deployment in ways that will further advance our strategy and financial objectives. We are applying AI not only to drive incremental efficiency, but also to scale knowledge and expertise while maintaining the resilience, governance, and client confidence that define our franchise. Our AI strategy is anchored in three outcomes: hyper-personalization, AI-generated alpha, and infinite scalability. Together, these outcomes focus investment where it matters the most, enhancing the client experience, improving decision quality, and increasing operating leverage. Hyper-personalization allows us to move toward highly contextual, tailored engagement. A tangible example is our One Wealth assistant, which integrates the Northern Trust Institute insights directly into workflows.
With future enhancements, this will equip our wealth management advisors with real-time, client-specific context, connecting market insights, portfolio considerations, and client objectives to support more informed, high-touch conversations with speed at scale. AI-generated alpha focuses on strengthening investment outcomes through faster synthesis of information and generating deeper insight. Within asset management, AI-assisted research and product construction tools are enabling teams to process significantly larger structured and unstructured data sets, identify patterns more quickly, and test scenarios more efficiently. This enhances both investment decision-making and operational execution, supporting stronger client outcomes without adding complexity. Infinite scalability is a key driver of operating leverage.
By digitizing work through agents, we further disconnect the relationship between growth and staffing, allowing for consistent execution across value chains and supporting stronger controls, all of which enable us to scale while maintaining rigorous risk management. With that backdrop, let me now turn to business performance for the quarter, beginning with Wealth Management. Momentum from last year carried into the first quarter, as improved organic growth underpinned by both strong advisory and product fees drove low double-digit trust fee growth. The regions delivered another quarter of solid results, with trust fee growth accelerating to 11%, supported by especially robust performance in the central region.
We made good progress implementing various client acquisition initiatives across talent, centers of influence, and digital channels. Talent is our most important growth driver. We are advancing plans to increase revenue-generating roles by high single-digit percentages by year-end. This includes significant increases in critical producer roles. Centers of influence, which include attorneys, accountants, and other professionals, are a vital referral source, driving nearly 25% of our new business activity. In the first quarter, we introduced a more robust and structured outreach framework to engage key centers of influence, including hiring a senior leader to accelerate this initiative, targeting a 10% increase in opportunities in 2026. Digital channels also continue to be an increasingly important source of new business.
To boost the transition from interest to conversion, we are enhancing data integration, lead qualification, and personalization at scale. Notably, the opportunities originating from digital channels in the first quarter grew by nearly 50% year over year. Within our Global Family Office business, strength in international markets and investment management fees drove healthy performance. We also continued to scale Family Office Solutions with early traction and client wins across several new markets. Expanding our investment offerings, particularly within alternatives, remains an important focus area. We had seven funds in the market during the first quarter, up from five in the previous quarter.
Looking ahead, we will continue to build out our alternatives platform, with a number of new alternative investment funds and strategies planned for launch later this year, with the goal of increasing ALPS fundraising by 25%. These offerings, spanning areas such as venture capital, co-investments, and secondary funds, will broaden access and flexibility for clients seeking diversified sources of return while maintaining our disciplined approach to portfolio construction and manager selection. Collectively, these initiatives are strengthening our ability to generate repeatable, scalable growth while enhancing both the client and employee experience. Turning to Asset Servicing. The business delivered another quarter of solid organic growth and strength in profitability, driven by disciplined execution of our strategic priorities.
Trust fee growth of 10%, coupled with significant NII and capital markets activity, fueled over 700 basis points of year-over-year pretax margin expansion. Our differentiated service model, deep institutional expertise, and strength in supporting complex client needs continues to resonate, particularly with global asset owners. During the quarter, we secured nine new mandates across foundations, endowments, and healthcare institutions, including four not-for-profit healthcare systems. As a result, we now serve three quarters of the top 50 healthcare systems in the United States. Within alternatives, we remain a market leader, with assets under administration approaching $1 trillion across hedge funds, private capital, and semi-liquid vehicles.
Demand for scalable, institutional-grade services remains strong, supported by more than a dozen wins during the quarter. These included Igneo’s planned second-quarter launch of a new private equity fund focusing on energy infrastructure in Europe, further expanding our global relationship across Europe, Australia, and the U.S. We also announced an expansion of our CLO middle office services, delivering a unified operational and compliance framework that supports the full lifecycle of CLOs as interest in this offering continues to grow. Strong momentum in capital markets continued in the first quarter, as elevated volatility and heightened client activity drove 34% growth, including another quarter of robust FX and core brokerage fees.
We are also seeing continued interest in our digital asset strategy, particularly in custody, reporting, and servicing of tokenized assets as tokenization moves towards scale. During the quarter, we onboarded five new clients, providing custody and other services for tokenized real-world assets, U.S. stablecoins, European money market funds, and carbon credits. Turning to Asset Management. NTAM made good progress in the first quarter, with strength across liquidity, alternatives, and equities, positioning the business well to meet its 2026 targets. Within liquidity, we extended our streak to 13 consecutive quarters of positive flows, with associated AUM increasing to $350 billion. Importantly, we continue to diversify our funding sources across global liquidity vehicles and third-party platforms while gaining overall market share.
We also launched a tokenized share class for our NIF Treasury Instruments Portfolio during the quarter, marking Northern Trust Corporation’s entry into the digital asset marketplace. By applying tokenization to institutional-grade liquidity strategies, we are offering clients a modern, digital-first way to access money market investments while maintaining our high standards for risk management and service. Within equities, ETF momentum remains strong, with the fourth consecutive quarter of positive flows. This was supported by the successful launch of the Northern Trust U.S. Equity ETF, our latest active ETF designed to deliver tax-efficient outcomes for investors.
We also launched our first Saudi Arabia equity index strategy with $1 billion in client capital, reflecting our expanded presence and strategic partnerships in the Middle East. NTAM continued to broaden its alternatives capabilities through active fundraising, which included three new sizable custom solutions and advisory mandates spanning secondaries, private credit, and private equity. Earlier in the quarter, we announced an important milestone in our third-party distribution strategy: our institutional-quality direct indexing capabilities became available on Envestnet’s platform, the largest independent TAMP, which supports approximately one-third of all financial advisers in the U.S. This will enable advisers to access our diverse lineup of equity strategies, empowering them to personalize portfolios at scale while managing tax outcomes.
Finally, reflecting the strength of our active investment platform and the expertise of our investment professionals, NTAM was recognized by Barron’s as a top fund family in 2025, ranking fourth overall and fifth in general equity out of 46 fund families. To wrap up, as we enter the second quarter, our priorities are clear and we remain focused on disciplined execution. With that, I will turn it over to David to walk through our first quarter financial results.
David W. Fox: Thanks, Mike. Let me join Jennifer and Mike in welcoming you to our first quarter 2026 earnings call. Let us discuss the financial results of the quarter starting on page four. This morning, we reported first quarter net income of $526 million, earnings per share of $2.71, and our return on average common equity was 17.4%. We are off to a strong start to the year. We delivered our seventh consecutive quarter of positive organic growth, positive operating leverage, and year-over-year improvement in our expense-to-trust-fee ratio, all excluding notables. We also returned 100% of our earnings to shareholders.
Relative to the prior year, currency movements favorably impacted our revenue growth by approximately 120 basis points and unfavorably impacted our expense growth by approximately 130 basis points. Relative to the prior period, currency movements were immaterial to both revenue and expense growth. Trust, investment, and other servicing fees totaled $1.3 billion, an 11% increase compared to last year, driven by favorable markets, currency, and new business generation. Other noninterest income was up 33% year over year, reflecting very strong FX trading and securities commission and trading income, which benefited from elevated macro volatility and uncertainty.
Net interest income on an FTE basis was up 1% sequentially to $662 million, a new quarterly record, and up 15% from a year ago. Our assets under custody/administration were down 1% sequentially but up 10% compared to the prior year. Our assets under management were also down 1% sequentially and up 11% year over year. Overall, our credit quality remains very strong, with all key credit metrics in line with historical standards. We recorded a $3 million reserve release in the first quarter driven by improvements to the C&I portfolio, which was partially offset by a small number of nonperforming loans.
Our effective tax rate was 25%, down 150 basis points from the previous quarter due to higher benefits associated with share-based compensation. We still expect the effective tax rate in 2026 to be approximately 26% to 26.5%. There were no notables in either 2026 or 2025. Turning to our Wealth Management business on page five. Wealth Management started the year well, with strength in trust fees across both GFO and the regions, spanning both advisory and product channels. Assets under management for our Wealth Management clients were $498 billion at quarter end, down 2% sequentially but up 11% year over year.
Trust, investment, and other servicing fees for Wealth Management clients were $601 million, up 11% year over year, with particularly robust organic growth within GFO. Average deposits within Wealth Management were flat sequentially, while average loans were up 1%. Wealth Management’s pretax profit rose 9% over the prior-year period, while the pretax margin remained flat at 37.1%, as we continue to reinvest in the business to support future growth. Moving to our Asset Servicing results on page six. Our Asset Servicing business also had a good start to the year, boosted by healthy new business generation, coupled with robust capital markets activity.
Assets under custody and administration for Asset Servicing clients were $17.3 trillion at quarter end, reflecting a 9% year-over-year increase. Asset Servicing fees totaled $741 million, up 10% over the prior year. Custody and fund administration fees were $498 million, also up 10% year over year, largely reflecting the impact from strong equity markets, favorable currency movements, and net new business. Assets under management for Asset Servicing clients were $1.3 trillion, up 11% over the prior year. Investment management fees within Asset Servicing were $169 million, up 11% year over year due to favorable markets and new business activities.
Asset Servicing average deposits were unusually strong, increasing 11% sequentially, while average loan volume decreased 2% from fourth-quarter levels, albeit off a small base. Asset Servicing pretax profit grew 59% over the prior-year period, and the pretax margin expanded 740 basis points year over year to 28.3%, benefiting from elevated deposit levels, higher volatility-driven capital markets activities, and the pivot in our new business approach. Moving to page seven on our balance sheet and net interest income trends. Our average earning assets were up 7% on a linked-quarter basis, as higher deposit levels drove an increase in money market assets and in our securities portfolio.
The fixed percentage of the securities portfolio remained flat at 52% in the first quarter, including the impact of swaps. The duration of the securities portfolio dipped slightly to 1.44 years at the end of the quarter, and the duration of our total balance sheet continued to be under one year. Deposit levels were higher than expected throughout the quarter, a result of both elevated volatility and general uncertainty in the marketplace. Average deposits were $129 billion, up 8% compared to fourth-quarter levels and 11% year over year. Within the deposit base, interest-bearing deposits increased by 8% sequentially, and noninterest-bearing deposits increased by 5%, remaining at 15% of the overall mix.
Net interest income on an FTE basis was up 1% to $662 million sequentially and up 15% compared to the prior year. Sequentially, NII was favorably impacted by higher deposit levels, including growth in noninterest-bearing deposits, along with the impact from fixed asset pricing and deposit pricing actions we have taken, which was partially offset by the full quarter’s impact from the fourth-quarter rate cuts. Our net interest margin on an FTE basis decreased sequentially to 1.75%, primarily reflecting several large short-term institutional deposits and the absence of the higher FTE adjustment recorded in the fourth quarter. Turning to our expenses on page eight. Expenses increased 6% year over year.
We delivered 410 basis points of trust-fee operating leverage and 740 basis points of total operating leverage. And our expense-to-trust-fee ratio, while seasonally higher at 112.4%, was down 440 basis points year over year. This translated to a pretax margin of 32%, up nearly 500 basis points year over year. Turning to page nine. Our capital levels and regulatory ratios remained strong in the quarter, and we continue to operate at levels well above our required regulatory minimums. Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under the standardized approach decreased by 60 basis points on a linked-quarter basis to 12%, driven by an increase in RWA related to elevated capital markets activities.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 7.3%, down 50 basis points from the prior quarter, driven by our larger balance sheet. At quarter end, our unrealized after-tax loss on available-for-sale securities was $446 million. We returned $510 million to common shareholders in the quarter through cash dividends of $151 million and stock repurchases of $359 million, reflecting a 100% payout ratio. Turning to our guidance. For the full year, we now expect NII to grow by mid- to high-single digits over the prior year, which is an increase from our previous guide of up low- to mid-single digits.
We still expect to generate more than 100 basis points of positive operating leverage, and we expect to return at least 100% of our earnings to shareholders. Before we open it up for questions, I would like to take a moment to thank Jennifer Childe, our head of investor relations, and congratulate her on her upcoming retirement. Steve Carroll, currently the CFO of Northern Trust Asset Management, will be stepping into the role and will work closely with Jennifer over the coming weeks to ensure continuity. Jennifer has been a trusted partner to me and the leadership team, and we are very grateful for her many contributions over the years. And with that, operator, please open the line for questions.
Operator: Thank you. And if you would like to ask a question, please signal by pressing star one on your telephone keypad. If you are using a speakerphone, please make sure your mute function is turned off to allow your signal to reach our equipment. We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question. Again, you can press star one to ask a question. We will pause for just a moment to allow everyone an opportunity to signal for questions. We will now take your first question, coming from the line of Ebrahim Huseini Poonawala with Bank of America.
Ebrahim Huseini Poonawala: Good morning. I have two questions. First, at the top of the house, we look at the pretax margin and ROE performance this quarter, including in Asset Servicing but for the entire business. There is a component of the macro being very strong for Northern Trust Corporation, but there is also a self-help component that was kicked off a couple of years ago. As we think about the sustainability of the ROE or the pretax margin, can you frame where there might be cyclical tailwinds that are leading to over-earning relative to the structural actions taken over the last couple of years that may improve resiliency, relative to what you reported for 1Q?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: Sure, Ebrahim. Our goal is to be a consistently high-performing company, and as you pointed out, that is something we put out there a few years ago along with our One Northern Trust strategy. We are very focused on executing on the three pillars of that strategy, and we will do that in different environments. This past quarter was a very constructive environment, and there is no question we got a lift in our financial performance as a result. Equity levels are still relatively high, the level of volatility is attractive for our capital markets business, and there is a fair amount of liquidity broadly in the market, which helps us with deposits and money market funds as well.
That said, we also, to your point, focus on self-help and executing as well as possible, whether it is a really strong environment or not so strong. As for the targets, at the last earnings call, we put out medium-term targets. Some of those, as I mentioned, we have largely hit or are close to, but it was in this strong environment. So we are going to keep driving towards those medium-term targets.
Ebrahim Huseini Poonawala: Got it. And switching to the Global Family Office, it has been a strong business over the last few years. Talk to us about the win rate and competitive landscape there, and the evolution of that client once they are on board. How do you think about the growth runway and the opportunity to improve ROI on the client once they are on board?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: The Global Family Office business is absolutely one of our strongest businesses. It is an area where we can deliver the entire firm—the best of all three businesses working together for these largest families and their family offices. It has grown at a high rate, and once again, in the first quarter, the organic growth rate for GFO was above the average for the businesses. Our competitive position and offering are strong. Second, it is still largely a U.S.-domiciled or focused business—international is less than 15% of the client base and revenues—yet it is growing faster. We believe this offering is attractive globally and is scalable globally.
Often the relationship starts with a more limited breadth of offering—primarily custody and reporting—but then we can do much more with the family office, particularly along investment management, and you saw some of that in the first quarter. We think it is a great business with a lot of upside.
Operator: Your next question will come from the line of Analyst with Morgan Stanley.
Analyst: Good morning. I wanted to start on operating leverage. You delivered 740 basis points of operating leverage this quarter—really strong. You reiterated the guide of generating over 100 basis points of operating leverage this year. Can you help us think about expense growth this year? Are there any investments that maybe got pushed out, any timing differences, or anything else we should be considering?
David W. Fox: Our expense growth methodology has not really changed. In this quarter, most of the year-over-year increase was driven by incentives, and there was some noise from currency as well. When you make more money, you are going to have a rising expense line. We still have in process the idea behind productivity funding investment, and then solving for an expense growth as a result of that. The productivity targets for the first quarter hit their target, the investments we wanted to make we were able to make, and the expense growth we managed to was about where we thought it would be.
That discipline and flexibility is built into our planning, which is why at the beginning of the year I talked more about operating leverage than attaching ourselves to a finite expense growth number. We wanted flexibility to react when markets are conducive, but also discipline to flex down in environments that are less so. So think of expenses as a dynamic line we look at continuously, driven by the productivity and investment side of the equation.
Analyst: Got it. And maybe pivoting to capital, any thoughts on the new Basel Endgame proposal and how it impacts your capital deployment strategy going forward?
David W. Fox: It is too soon to say how it might impact capital return. On balance, our preliminary view is it could be a net positive for us as it relates to the commercial loan side, and operational risk is something we probably have less of than some other peer banks. Net-net, we think it is going to be a positive for RWA, but it is still early days, we are in the comment period, and we are taking a cautious look. We do not think it will have a massive impact, but if it does, it would likely be net positive.
Operator: Your next question will come from the line of Michael Lawrence Mayo with Wells Fargo Securities.
Michael Lawrence Mayo: Wealth is growing double digits, as you said; firmwide revenue is up 14%; you are at the higher end of return targets—seems like it was working this quarter. What got my attention is the new news that you look to grow wealth producers by 7% to 9% this year. I think this is the most competitive market we have seen in wealth almost ever. Why now do you look to increase the wealth producers, and what is your pitch, given every large bank and brokerage is expanding wealth?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: You are right; we are focused on hiring talent in Wealth Management, especially revenue-generating producer roles, and it is a very competitive marketplace for the best talent. Looking back over the last several years, that group has grown but at a lower rate than the growth of the business itself. There is an acknowledgment that we need more talent to increase the organic growth rate within Wealth. As for the value proposition, we have an excellent brand and are positioned within the upper tiers of the market where the highest levels of expertise want to serve that client base and bring on new clients.
We have been investing in the platform, including Family Office Solutions, which we believe is differentiated—better and more attractive than standalone virtual family offices—because it brings the full set of resources and banking capabilities we have, leveraging our history and fiduciary and trust capabilities. For an adviser seeking to apply their trade and succeed, we offer a platform that we believe is the best place to do that. It is a different model at Northern Trust Corporation, and we think it is attractive.
Michael Lawrence Mayo: As part of this increased investing for growth—whether in wealth or firmwide—you are still guiding to 100 basis points of operating leverage this year, but you had over 700 basis points in the first quarter. Is the reason for no change in that guide just conservatism, or also because you think you might ramp up some spending as you bring on new producers?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: It is a very constructive macro environment for us, so there is acknowledgment that strong revenue growth was supported by that backdrop. We do not know what will happen through the year, and there are tough comps ahead given strong second, third, and fourth quarters last year. As David mentioned, we have aligned resource deployment with productivity, looking to drive productivity to fund investment. We expect to continue to invest in areas we discussed, but the plan is to generate more productivity to do it and not necessarily change the expense growth profile.
David W. Fox: The direction of travel on expenses is down for the remainder of the year.
Operator: Next question will come from the line of Brennan Hawken with BMO Capital Markets.
Brennan Hawken: Good morning, and thanks for taking my question. Dave, you flagged strength in deposit growth, and it looks like a lot of that was driven by the servicing business. You also flagged some large institutional deposits weighing on NIM. Was part of that deposit strength from large institutional deposits? How should we think about the deposit profile as we move forward through the year?
David W. Fox: We had some largely unexpected, extremely large deposits. We keep our capital ratios where we keep them because we want our balance sheet open at all times for our largest clients. Occasionally, some clients do strategic repositioning, and we want to be in position to capture those deposits. They are not core operational deposits and are not there for a long period, but we accommodate them. In this quarter, that drove up average deposits significantly. That will not fully translate into Q2, although of the roughly $9 billion increase, we think we will keep $4 billion to $5 billion in terms of average deposits. These deposits came from a handful of very important big clients.
Brennan Hawken: Got it. You also spoke to robust organic growth in the GFO business, but we did not see a lot of deposit trends. Is the organic growth in that business less tied to deposits, and therefore that is the divergence? Also, could you give a little color around your new efforts around Family Office Solutions, and how you categorize those versus GFO?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: These family offices have significant liquidity, which they actively move between on-balance-sheet deposits, our money market funds, and short-term Treasuries. It is active liquidity management on their part and for them, so from quarter to quarter, deposit numbers can move up and down. It is less an indicator of organic growth and more an indicator of activity. Regarding Family Office Solutions, we leverage our strong GFO capabilities to create a virtual family office experience for a family that does not want to set up its own office. They are not run as one business but are closely related and highly coordinated, leveraging technology and expertise across both.
It is a different service model where we act as essentially the head of that family office, as opposed to that person and team being employees of the client’s family office.
Operator: Your next question will come from the line of Alexander Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Alexander Blostein: Good morning. The tone in your prepared remarks and some of the Q&A feels like it leans toward organic growth acceleration a bit more than in the past, and you talked about investments to support that. Where do you see the most opportunity to accelerate growth, and what do you think Northern Trust Corporation’s organic fee growth—ex markets—should look like over the next couple of years if you achieve these goals across both institutional and wealth?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: We see organic growth opportunity across all three businesses, though the nature differs. In Wealth Management, the focus is on adding talent to increase the growth rate, plus other drivers like marketing, digital marketing, and centers of influence—essentially bringing in more opportunities at the top of the funnel. AI will also create opportunities to transform the client and adviser experience, particularly as you work down the wealth tier, and that requires investment. Within Asset Servicing, the goal is scalable growth, staying focused on our current footprint, offerings, and segments to continue growth at a very profitable level and drive margins up.
In Asset Management, growth has come from core products—certainly liquidity—but we are investing in ETFs, tax-advantaged equity, and quant, which requires building out third-party distribution. That is currently a small part of our asset management business but could grow at a much higher rate. We have talked about an organic growth rate targeted around 3%, and we believe these initiatives will drive the 3% and, we hope, above that.
Alexander Blostein: Thanks. A quick follow-up around capital management: with the Visa shares becoming available this year, talk through the amount of proceeds you expect, the use of these proceeds, and timing when it comes to potentially bigger buybacks.
David W. Fox: We expect roughly half of our position to become available, with an estimated pretax value of about $470 million—roughly $3.50 per share post-tax, depending on the share price. We have only just begun to evaluate the uses. We are not going to use the same playbook we had a few years ago; we have other options now. We will weigh proceeds against our priorities and decide at that time, but we have not landed on a specific use yet.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Kenneth Michael Usdin with Autonomous Research.
Kenneth Michael Usdin: Thanks, and good morning. On the balance sheet, you mentioned the benefits from size and deposits—some may not stay, some might. Given the higher-for-longer environment, how do you think about duration of the securities portfolio and any changes to that, or is it more wait-and-see because you are not 100% sure if the elevated size lingers?
David W. Fox: When we think about upside to the balance sheet and NII during the year, we consider several drivers as we guide. First is investment securities maturity replacement—we still have back-book repricing and can take advantage of that through 2026. We took some deposit pricing actions toward the end of last year that we have not lapped yet, so those are built-in increases this year. We have been leaning a bit more into incremental investment strategies around higher-yielding opportunities and looking at our wholesale funding mix, leaning a bit more into FICC repo as well. Then there is deposit growth in line with the businesses.
We also no longer have the potential headwind, in our view, of a U.S. rate cut, and there may be rate increases in Europe. Put all that together, and that is how we get there. We are not going to reach for yield or materially change duration; we do not need to. There is a lot of uncertainty, and our positioning is pretty stable.
Kenneth Michael Usdin: Bigger picture follow-up: with potential new Fed share coming on and talk about shrinking the size of the Fed balance sheet—already down about $2.5 trillion—and trust bank deposits keep growing, what is the rule of thumb if the Fed balance sheet continues to shrink over time? How insulated is your balance sheet from that in terms of deposits?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: We are observant of what is happening and frankly a little surprised that liquidity levels have remained so high on our balance sheet and in our funds given the Fed has reduced its balance sheet as much as it has. If we are in some level of stabilization, that is good because our deposit and money market fund levels will grow with organic growth. If the Fed were to really shrink its balance sheet more, that would pull liquidity out of the marketplace, and our model, like others, would tend to expand and contract with that somewhat. So yes, there is some downside exposure if liquidity is pulled, less so on the upside.
Operator: Your next question will come from the line of Analyst with Wolfe Research.
Analyst: Good morning. On the margins in the business segments: Asset Servicing margin has expanded nicely, but in Wealth, the margin was flat year on year despite strong revenue growth. What are the components that will drive the path toward your medium-term target of 33% in the margin?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: The goal in Asset Servicing is scalable growth, and while we had a strong pretax margin this quarter, we are working to move it up consistently. The macro backdrop—capital markets and NII—was particularly strong and contributed to the higher pretax margin this quarter, but we want to make that more sustainable and resilient at a high level, and there is more opportunity. In Wealth Management, where we have had a very attractive pretax margin, we are emphasizing growth and making investments to support that growth. We feel we are in a good margin range, but we are prioritizing growth over margin expansion.
To the extent we have near-term pressure on the Wealth margin as we invest, the expectation is we more than make up for that with improvement in Asset Servicing.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of David Charles Smith with Truist Securities.
David Charles Smith: Good morning. On organic growth, you said it is seven consecutive quarters of positive growth for the business as a whole, and you have a 3% target that you think you can do better than over time. Help us with where organic growth is today and where you were a year ago by business. We know GFO is above average; is Asset Servicing and the regional part of Wealth barely positive today—1% or 2%—and where were those the year prior?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: In this quarter, each of the three businesses had positive organic growth, and that is true within their major segments. Within Wealth Management, organic growth has been closer to a consistent ~1%, with GFO above that and the regions a little below that. We are looking for GFO to continue at a high rate and for the regions to incrementally increase their growth rate through this year and next, to move the total above 3%. In Asset Servicing, given the nature of larger mandates, organic growth can swing more from quarter to quarter or even year to year. A few years back, we had periods of business roll-offs that brought growth down to flat-to-negative.
It is positive now, about the same range as Wealth, and we see opportunity to increase it with focus on profitability and scalability. In Asset Management, more recent organic growth has been primarily driven by liquidity, but we are seeing greater diversification, with ETFs and tax-advantaged equity showing nice organic growth. Again, about the same range and the expectation to increase.
David Charles Smith: Do you expect over time all major businesses to be doing 3% organic, or, in the medium term, to get there for the company as a whole with some above and some below?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: The target is for all of them to be above 3%, but given variability quarter to quarter and year to year, they may not all be at the same time. That is the benefit of having three businesses.
Operator: Your final question will be coming from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Gerard Cassidy: Hi, Mike. Hi, Dave. Mike, you called out outsized growth in Wealth in your central region. What drove that?
Michael Gerard O’Grady: Given the company has been in the central region and headquartered in Chicago for a very long time, we have a very strong business there. Often people think it is a mature business that will not grow at the same or a higher rate, but the team and leadership—particularly under John Fumagalli and his team—have consistently leveraged that strength to grow at a higher rate. More recently, Family Office Solutions has been a driver. That is where we started with that solution set; it has gained momentum in this region, and we are rolling it out to the other regions in the same way.
Gerard Cassidy: Turning to credit quality, which is always strong at Northern Trust Corporation: you do not take a lot of risk in lending and your loan portfolio is not large relative to assets. What are you seeing in quality trends? Have things changed meaningfully since the financial crisis and pandemic—are customers more resilient today?
David W. Fox: Keep in mind our tilt toward investment grade on the corporate side, and in Wealth we usually do secured facilities. For those to be in stress would take quite a bit of downside. We are also not exposed to the same extent in private equity or private credit where there is some pressure. We do not lend on valuation or performance of underlying fund investments; we do subscription facilities where the underlying obligors are largely institutional and quite strong. We are not in the high-yield or leveraged loan markets. So we are not seeing the same pressures others might be experiencing.
Operator: And it appears there are no additional questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to Jennifer Childe for closing remarks.
Jennifer Childe: Thanks for joining us, and we look forward to speaking with you again in the future.
Michael Gerard O’Grady: Once again, Jennifer, thank you very much.
Operator: This concludes today’s call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
This article is a transcript of this conference call produced for The Motley Fool. While we strive for our Foolish Best, there may be errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in this transcript. Parts of this article were created using Large Language Models (LLMs) based on The Motley Fool's insights and investing approach. It has been reviewed by our AI quality control systems. Since LLMs cannot (currently) own stocks, it has no positions in any of the stocks mentioned. As with all our articles, The Motley Fool does not

